"Mark Zuckerberg Testifies on Facebook Before Skeptical Lawmakers"
"Advertisement"
"By KEVIN ROOSE and CECILIA KANGAPRIL 10, 2018"
"In a hearing held in response to revelations of data harvesting by Cambridge Analytica, Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook chief executive, faced questions from senators on a variety of issues, from privacy to the company’s business model."
"WASHINGTON — Outside the Capitol Building on Tuesday sat dozens of cardboard cutouts depicting Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, wearing a characteristic T-shirt emblazoned with the message “Fix Fakebook.”"
"Inside, clad in a navy suit and bright blue tie, Mr. Zuckerberg appeared before the Senate Commerce and Judiciary committees as he really is: the billionaire leader of one of the world’s most powerful commercial and civic enterprises."
"Mr. Zuckerberg’s appearance, his first before Congress, turned into something of a pointed gripe session, with both Democratic and Republican senators attacking Facebook for failing to protect users’ data and stop Russian election interference, and raising questions about whether Facebook should be more heavily regulated. Of specific interest were the revelations that sensitive data of as many as 87 million Facebook users were harvested without explicit permission by a political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, which was connected to the Trump campaign."
"Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, appeared confident and answered questions directly, and his performance helped bolster Facebook’s stock, which ended the day up 4.5 percent. It was the first of two marathon hearings; the second will be before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Wednesday."
"He was forced to admit mistakes and take responsibility for his company’s actions — as have the many tobacco, pharmaceutical and bank executives who have been summoned to Washington."
"“I think it’s pretty much impossible, I believe, to start a company in your dorm room and then grow it to be at the scale that we’re at now without making some mistakes,” Mr. Zuckerberg said."
"Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, zeroed in on the central issue of the hearing, asking Mr. Zuckerberg whether he would be comfortable sharing aloud the name of the hotel where he stayed on Monday night, or whether he would be comfortable sharing the names of the people he has messaged this week."
"“No. I would probably not choose to do that publicly here,” Mr. Zuckerberg said."
"“I think that may be what this is all about,” Mr. Durbin said. “Your right to privacy. The limits of your right to privacy. And how much you give away in modern America in the name of, quote, connecting people around the world.”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg was the only technology chief in the room, but he was often treated as a stand-in for the whole industry. Facebook has come under intense criticism for the Cambridge Analytica leak and for its initial response, which set off a #DeleteFacebook campaign online and sent the stock plunging more than 15 percent."
"But the hearing was about more than Facebook; it exposed a critical turning point as the power, sophistication and potential exploitation of technology outpaces what users, regulators or even its creators expected or seem prepared to handle."
"The moment is creating a showdown between two national power centers — Washington and Silicon Valley — as they jockey in a technology-centric world. Although Washington has long served as a check on the power of Wall Street and other profitable industries, lawmakers have tended to act as cheerleaders for technology companies rather than watchdogs. Light regulation enabled a culture of freewheeling innovation, and the beloved products that Silicon Valley companies created made them politically convenient allies."
"Today, five of the eight largest companies in the world are West Coast technology companies. Only a single East Coast institution, JPMorgan Chase, cracks the top 10. And lawmakers on both sides of the aisle suggested that Facebook and other companies may not be able to police themselves."
"
         Revelations that consultants to the Trump campaign misused millions of Facebook users’ data set off an international furor. This is how The Times covered it.
      "
"“Have you gotten too big?” Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, asked Mr. Zuckerberg, before suggesting that Facebook might need to be reined in to protect it from itself."
"Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, pressed Mr. Zuckerberg on whether Facebook had become a monopoly, asking why Congress “should let you self-regulate?”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg said he welcomed some form of regulation, as long as it was the “right regulation.” He also expressed support for the Honest Ads Act, a bill in Congress that would require more disclosures from online political advertisers."
"His answers did not mollify lawmakers, including Mr. Graham, who said in a statement after the hearing that “continued self-regulation is not the right answer when it comes to dealing with the abuses we have seen on Facebook.”"
"Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said in an interview that he was “unsatisfied” and that it was clear Facebook could not and would not fully regulate itself and that Congress needed to provide a solution."
"“The old saying: There ought to be a law,” he said. “There has to be a law. Unless there’s a law, their business model is going to continue to maximize profit over privacy.”"
"What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday."
"Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box."
"Invalid email address. Please re-enter."
"You must select a newsletter to subscribe to."
"View all New York Times newsletters."
"Mr. Zuckerberg’s appearance before more than 40 senators came after weeks of preparation, and it appeared to pay off, as he seemed calm, deferential and prepared. Mr. Zuckerberg offered humor about the company’s onetime mantra: “move fast and break things.” (It has since been edited to “move fast with stable infrastructure.”) He insisted on continuing questions when offered a break, eliciting smiles and laughter from staff sitting behind him. However, when Mr. Zuckerberg did take a break, he left behind his notes, which were quickly photographed and contained talking points for various topics including “Defend Facebook,” “Disturbing Content” and “Election integrity (Russia).”"
"His performance won accolades on Wall Street. “This is a different Mark Zuckerberg than the Street was fearing,” said Daniel Ives, chief strategy officer and head of technology research for GBH Insights in New York. “It’s a defining 48 hours that will determine the future of Facebook, and so far he has passed with flying colors, and the Street is relieved.”"
"But Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged that his idealistic view of humanity, and those of his fellow executives, had exposed Facebook’s roughly 2.2 billion users to danger. Among them: Facebook failed to detect and stop Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, an oversight that Mr. Zuckerberg called “one of my greatest regrets.”"
"Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota and chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, called Facebook and its role in society “extraordinary” and began the hearing by explaining that Facebook and Mr. Zuckerberg were being singled out because of the company’s power."
"Mr. Thune said the Cambridge Analytica situation underscored how Facebook could be used for nefarious reasons, saying it appeared “to be the result of people exploiting the tools you created to manipulate users’ information.”"
"In an indication that he may support legislation for internet companies, Mr. Thune said, “In the past, many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle have been willing to defer to tech companies’ efforts to regulate themselves. But this may be changing.”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg was careful when pressed on how he defined the company, wary of opening it up to new legal liability. He said that Facebook was responsible for the content on the social network, but he argued that it was a technology company, rather than a publisher."
"“I agree that we’re responsible for the content,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “But we don’t produce the content.”"
"Nicholas Fandos, Alan Rappeport and Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting."
"Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter."
"A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Wary Lawmakers Question Facebook’s Founder.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe

"
"We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think."
"See More »"
"Go to Home Page »"
"Missing From Facebook’s Crisis: Mark Zuckerberg"
"By KEVIN ROOSE and SHEERA FRENKELMARCH 21, 2018"
"When a former engineer revealed a pattern of sexual harassment at Uber last year, Travis Kalanick, then the company’s chief executive, said he would immediately open an investigation."
"When users complained about bugs and problems with the Apple Maps app in 2012, Tim Cook, the company’s chief executive, released a statement that said “we fell short.”"
"And in 2011, when Netflix tried to split off its mail-order DVD business into a company called Qwikster, its chief executive, Reed Hastings, wrote a letter to the public. “I messed up,” he said. “I owe everyone an explanation.”"
"But in the past week, as Facebook plunged into a crisis over how Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm that provided voter-targeting services to the Trump campaign, improperly obtained data on 50 million Facebook users, Mark Zuckerberg, the social network’s chief executive, said, well, nothing."
"Neither Mr. Zuckerberg nor Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, has made any public appearances this week. Mr. Zuckerberg’s last public post on Facebook was a March 2 photo of himself and his wife, Priscilla Chan, baking hamantaschen cookies to celebrate the Jewish holiday of Purim; Ms. Sandberg’s most recent post was a four-day-old photo from her child’s debate competition."
"[Updated: Mark Zuckerberg Breaks His Silence, Vows Action to Bolster Data Privacy]"
"Facebook employees have described a tense atmosphere in which some joked about selling their stock in the company before it took another dip. The company has lost about $50 billion in market value in the last couple of days. Over the past few months, as criticism of the company’s role in the 2016 election has escalated, some employees have sought to transfer to other divisions of the company, such as WhatsApp and Instagram, calling their work on Facebook’s main product “demoralizing.”"
"On Monday, The New York Times reported that Alex Stamos, the company’s chief security officer, was slated to leave the company in August after disagreements with other top executives over the handling of Russia’s exploitation of Facebook’s platform during the 2016 election season. On Tuesday, Brian Acton, a co-founder of WhatsApp, which was acquired by Facebook in 2014 for $19 billion, posted a tweet that read, “It is time. #deletefacebook.” Mr. Acton did not return a request for comment."
"Two people familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the discussions were confidential, said that Mr. Zuckerberg planned to address the Cambridge Analytica situation and the larger data privacy issues with a public statement on Wednesday. The statement will be aimed at rebuilding trust with users, one of the people said. In the past week, one of the people said, Mr. Zuckerberg has spent significant time hunkered down with a small group of engineers to discuss how to make Facebook’s users more secure, with more control of their data."
"Kate Losse, an early Facebook employee and Mr. Zuckerberg’s former speechwriter, said that the Cambridge Analytica controversy was different from previous Facebook privacy scandals, in that it was about an issue at the core of the company’s business model that will not be easily remedied: the disclosure of Facebook data to outside sources through its third-party developer platform."
"“My guess is that what is giving Zuckerberg pause at this point is the question of how to acknowledge and explain this state of affairs while at the same time mitigating the concerns that will come from people finally understanding how this all worked,” she said."
"Mr. Zuckerberg is no stranger to speaking out during times of company crisis. In 2006, users rebelled after Facebook introduced the first version of its news feed, which showed users for the first time what their friends were doing on the social network. As groups formed to protest what they felt was an incursion on their privacy, Mr. Zuckerberg posted a peacemaking note on his Facebook page."
"“Calm down. Breathe. We hear you,” he wrote."
"Zuckerberg Takes Steps to Calm Facebook Employees"
"By SHEERA FRENKELMARCH 23, 2018"
"SAN FRANCISCO — For the past week, Mark Zuckerberg has grappled with a backlash from lawmakers, regulators and users over Facebook’s mishandling of data privacy. He has also had to face another restive group: his own employees."
"The Facebook chief executive has taken multiple steps over the past few days to communicate with the social network’s 25,000 employees over revelations last week that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, had improperly obtained data of 50 million Facebook users."
"The Silicon Valley company held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica, featuring one of Facebook’s lawyers, Paul Grewal. On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Zuckerberg addressed employees directly, according to two Facebook employees who asked not be identified because the proceedings were confidential. Mr. Zuckerberg also spoke with staff on Friday at a regularly scheduled employee meeting, said two people who attended the event."
"Facebook declined to comment on the meetings."
"Speaking to Facebook’s employees was a crucial prong of what has become an apology tour of sorts for Mr. Zuckerberg over the Cambridge Analytica fallout. The revelations have raised calls for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear before Congress to explain himself, as well as a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism."
"Mr. Zuckerberg had stayed silent on the matter for days, until he released a statement on Wednesday vowing that Facebook had to do better and gave several interviews to quell the crisis. That has not stopped pressure from Congress, with bipartisan leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee saying on Friday that they had sent a formal request for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in a hearing over Facebook’s “harvesting and sale of personal information” related to Cambridge Analytica."
"Calming employees was particularly vital because morale had sunk at the company, Facebook employees have said, especially after months of scrutiny over how the social network was used by Russian agents to influence the 2016 presidential election. Keeping workers engaged is crucial in Silicon Valley’s highly competitive job market, where recruiting and retaining talent often is difficult against deep-pocketed rivals."
"Earlier this week, some Facebook employees had said that colleagues had started looking to transfer from the main social network product to other branches of the company, such as to messaging app WhatsApp and photo-sharing site Instagram, which have been relatively unscathed by the recent scandals."
"One Facebook recruiter, who declined to be identified because of a nondisclosure agreement, said there were concerns that top talent might choose other Silicon Valley companies over Facebook."
"“It’s such a shocking difference for company employees who are used to having esteem for where they work,” said Eric Schiffer, chairman of Reputation Management Consultants, a consulting firm, and who has been speaking with people at Facebook. “Ten years ago, Facebook was the hottest place to go out of college. This year, the best graduates are not necessarily looking at Facebook.”"
"When Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the Tuesday staff meeting hosted by the company lawyer, Mr. Grewal, his absence made headlines."
"When he spoke to workers on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg focused on concrete measures that Facebook was taking following the Cambridge Analytica reports, two employees said. Staff members asked questions about how Mr. Zuckerberg planned to regain user trust, especially in light of the #DeleteFacebook campaign from users, the two employees said."
"Mr. Zuckerberg said the social network was investigating apps like the third-party quiz app that had obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network, which had then been used by Cambridge Analytica. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access and would notify users whose data had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica."
"Of the #DeleteFacebook campaign, Mr. Zuckerberg told The New York Times in an interview, “I think it’s a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that.”"
"Three Facebook employees said morale had improved following the interviews and the internal communications that Mr. Zuckerberg did on Wednesday. One of them said he had avoided a trip home to see his family last weekend because he did not want to answer questions about the company he worked for."
"On Friday, Facebook’s senior managers promised an open line of communication as the company continued to re-evaluate its privacy and security measures, said two employees."
"There was a feeling, said one of the people, that Facebook wanted to take aggressive steps to make sure it could regain user trust. And over all, he said, confidence was up."
"Mark Zuckerberg Meets With Top Lawmakers Before Hearings"
"By CECILIA KANG, TIFFANY HSU and SHEERA FRENKELAPRIL 9, 2018"
"WASHINGTON — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, tried to get ahead of a week of intense scrutiny for him and his company by visiting several top lawmakers in Washington on Monday and reiterating how sorry he was for the social network’s failings."
"Mr. Zuckerberg, in a dark suit and tie and accompanied by an entourage of aides, held several meetings with leaders of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees. He also posted testimony apologizing for Facebook’s role in false news, data privacy leaks and foreign interference in elections, as his company announced that it would form an independent commission of academic researchers to study social media’s impact on elections."
"The blitz of actions preceded Mr. Zuckerberg’s facing lawmakers for the first time over Facebook’s role and influence on society, set off by revelations that the data of up to 87 million Facebook users was improperly harvested by a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica. Lawmakers, furious over the reports, called on Mr. Zuckerberg to explain himself. He is scheduled to testify before congressional committees on Tuesday and Wednesday, when he is set to be publicly grilled."
"The prospect that Mr. Zuckerberg, a 33-year-old billionaire, will be taken to task on Capitol Hill has created intense interest and a media circus. On Monday, he was trailed by more than a dozen television cameras and numerous reporters when he exited the office of Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a Senate Commerce Committee leader. Mr. Zuckerberg said nothing as he strode out of an Senate office elevator, accompanied by Joel Kaplan, Facebook’s vice president for global public policy, who is based in Washington, and Brian Rice, a leading Democratic lobbyist for the social network, among others."
"Mr. Nelson, who met with Mr. Zuckerberg for an hour, said the chief executive was taking the situation “seriously.”"
"“He knows regulation could be around the corner,” Mr. Nelson said, adding that Mr. Zuckerberg was forthright and answered questions to the best of his ability. Among the topics the two discussed was Russia’s interference in the 2016 election, when Russian agents used Facebook to spread divisive messages to the American electorate, Mr. Nelson said."
"But when asked whether the meeting helped assuage his concerns about Facebook’s privacy violations, Mr. Nelson said, “Count me as skeptical.” He also said it was to be determined whether Facebook would be able to stave off more foreign disruption in the American midterm elections this fall."
"“I think he’s trying,” Mr. Nelson said of Mr. Zuckerberg, “but I think if we don’t get our arms around this, none of us is going to have any privacy anymore.”"
"Staff for Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota and chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said Mr. Zuckerberg and the senator were scheduled to meet on Monday. In addition, Mr. Zuckerberg met with the Judiciary Committee leaders, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, according to a person briefed on the visits, who asked not to be named because the information was not public."
"Senator Grassley did not respond to a request for comment. Mr. Thune’s and Ms. Feinstein’s offices confirmed the meetings with Mr. Zuckerberg but declined to elaborate."
"Facebook described Mr. Zuckerberg’s interactions with lawmakers as “courtesy meetings” and pointed to Mr. Zuckerberg’s prepared testimony that was released on Monday. In those comments, which were posted by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Mr. Zuckerberg reiterated how Facebook needed to do better in data privacy and other matters."
"“We didn’t take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in prepared testimony. “It was my mistake, and I’m sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I’m responsible for what happens here.”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg added that Facebook must do more to protect its users’ personal information and summarized some of the measures the Silicon Valley company is taking to lock down the data privacy of its more than 2.2 billion members. Those include blocking app developers from gaining access to the data of users who have been inactive for three months, restricting the ability of users to inadvertently share information about others in their networks and adopting stricter permissions guidelines and search features."
"On Monday, Facebook also began notifying the 87 million people whose data may have been harvested by Cambridge Analytica by posting a notification that they would see when they logged into the social network. In addition, all Facebook users will see a new feature highlighting which apps they use and which information they have shared with those apps."
"In recent days, Facebook also suspended two data analytics companies for inappropriately gathering data from their platform. AggregateIQ, a Canadian firm associated with Cambridge Analytica, was suspended on Friday, Facebook said. The company was accused of using data inappropriately harvested from Facebook to support the “Vote Leave” campaign for Britain to exit the European Union."
"AggregateIQ did not respond to a request for comment about its suspension, which was earlier reported by The Financial Times. According to a statement on its website, “AggregateIQ has never managed, nor did we ever have access to, any Facebook data or database allegedly obtained improperly by Cambridge Analytica.”"
"Facebook also said it had suspended CubeYou for inappropriately harvesting data, using tactics similar those of Cambridge Analytica. The company collected information on Facebook users through quizzes. CNBC, which earlier reported the firm’s suspension, said people had been misled into believing the quizzes would be used for nonprofit academic research; instead, the data was sold to marketers."
"“Our apps and activity on Facebook have been subject to regular audits and reviews with the company,” a CubeYou spokeswoman said. She added that the company was in compliance with Facebook’s data policy and rules and that CubeYou’s terms informed users that their data would be used for academic and business research purposes."
"Yet even as Facebook suspended data firms and took other actions over data privacy, worries about what can be posted on the social network continued. Facebook confirmed on Monday that it had removed a popular Facebook page with nearly 700,000 followers that was associated with the Black Lives Matter movement after it was discovered to be inauthentic."
"A Facebook spokesman said the individual who started the page was not who he claimed to be on Facebook. The inauthentic page was earlier reported by CNN."
"In a separate post on Facebook on Monday, Mr. Zuckerberg addressed how the social network was misused by Russians in the 2016 presidential election and said that Facebook would create the commission of researchers to study social media’s impact on elections."
"The commission’s goal, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, “is both to get the ideas of leading academics on how to address these issues as well as to hold us accountable for making sure we protect the integrity of these elections on Facebook.”"
"The researchers chosen to participate will have access to privacy-protected sets of Facebook data, but only after being vetted by a review board, external privacy experts, and Facebook’s privacy and research review teams. The company said it would not review or approve the researchers’ findings before they are published."
"Financing for the project is being provided by, among others, the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, the Charles Koch Foundation and the Omidyar Network."
"Elliot Schrage, Facebook’s vice president for communications and public policy, and David Ginsberg, its director of research, said in a blog post on Monday that the company had made “real progress” in dealing with hoax stories and sham accounts since the 2016 election and the campaign, known as Brexit, to withdraw Britain from the European Union."
"“But there is much more to do — and we don’t have all the answers,” they said."
"Zuckerberg, Facing Facebook’s Worst Crisis Yet, Pledges Better Privacy"
"By SHEERA FRENKEL and KEVIN ROOSEMARCH 21, 2018"
"SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, on Wednesday publicly addressed for the first time the misuse of data belonging to 50 million users of the social network and described the steps the company would take to safeguard the information of its more than two billion monthly users."
"Although his statement addressing a chorus of criticism fell short of a full-throated apology, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would contact users whose data had been harvested through a personality quiz app and passed along to the political data firm Cambridge Analytica."
"“We have a responsibility to protect your data,” Mr. Zuckerberg said Wednesday in a Facebook post, “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, was trying to quell the crisis over the disclosure last weekend that Cambridge Analytica had used data that had been improperly obtained from Facebook as the firm worked on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign."
"“Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there?” Mr. Zuckerberg said later in an interview with The New York Times. He added, “Were there apps which could have gotten access to more information and potentially sold it without us knowing or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control.”"
"Mr. Zuckerberg said the company would investigate apps like the third-party quiz app that had previously obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access."
"In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which data from over 50 million Facebook profiles was secretly scraped and mined for voter insights, many Facebook users have decided to delete their accounts — but untangling yourself from a site like Facebook is not as easy as pressing “delete.”"
"“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in his Facebook statement."
"The Cambridge Analytica revelations added to the questions that have been raised about Facebook’s handling of user data and security. Those questions have only intensified as the company has faced criticism over the role its platform played in Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election and the way it has been used to spread misinformation on the internet."
"The resulting backlash is Facebook’s worst crisis since it was founded by Mr. Zuckerberg and others in 2004. The information, photos and other content that users post and their frequent engagement with the platform is crucial to the social network, and to the company’s profitability. Questions about user privacy and security threaten the company’s standing at a time when people are already uneasy about whether the use of technology can bring good or ill."
"Last Friday, after The New York Times, The Observer of London and Channel 4 in Britain told Facebook that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it had obtained, the social network banned the political consulting firm and Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher who created the personality quiz app that was used to harvest user data."
"“This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Wednesday. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.”"
"Facebook representatives confirmed that Cambridge Analytica representatives met with Facebook on Tuesday to discuss lifting the ban. Mr. Zuckerberg told The Times he did not rule out allowing Cambridge Analytica back, saying Facebook must first conduct a “full forensic audit of the firm” and “have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.”"
"The reaction to the Cambridge Analytica disclosure has been severe. Politicians in the United States and Britain have called for Mr. Zuckerberg to explain how his company handles user data, and state attorneys general in Massachusetts and New York have begun investigating Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. A #DeleteFacebook movement calling on people to close their accounts has also gathered steam."
"The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry."
"In Washington, there have been more calls for regulation of internet companies like Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg’s troubles there were illustrated by the final passage on Wednesday of a bill to combat sex trafficking. The bill would lift liability protections that internet companies have enjoyed for content that users post on their platforms. Facebook and other internet giants had quietly fought the bill for more than a year, but eventually dropped their opposition."
"Lawmakers who have demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg testify before Congress about Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica were not appeased by his statement."
"“You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath,” Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, tweeted in response to Mr. Zuckerberg’s post."
"Independent researchers who have used data from Facebook said that Mr. Zuckerberg’s statement did not acknowledge how the gathering of user data was fundamental to the company’s operations."
"“He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” said Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University. “There is no question that handing out that data made Facebook the success it is as a company. This has to be recognized as part of their business model and not just a one-off problem.”"
"In his statement, Mr. Zuckerberg laid out a timeline of Facebook’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica. He traced the information-sharing issue to 2007, when Facebook decided to become an open platform — enabling people to use Facebook to log into other apps and share detailed personal information about themselves and their friends."
"In 2013, Mr. Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, created a personality quiz app that about 300,000 people installed, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Because Facebook was an open platform, Mr. Kogan was able to collect data on tens of millions of friends of those users who had installed the personality quiz app."
"A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2018, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Facebook’s Chief Admits Mistakes In Guarding Data.   Order Reprints|  Today's Paper|Subscribe

"
"Questions mount for Facebook — and Mark Zuckerberg isn't answering them"
"A data mining firm's alleged misuse of Facebook user data is ballooning into one of the highest-profile crises that the social media giant has ever faced. Yet Facebook's highest-profile executives have so far been noticeably absent from the conversation."
"Since Cambridge Analytica was accused this weekend of misappropriating data linked to 50 million accounts in an attempt to sway users' political opinions, Facebook has faced questions from Congress and the Federal Trade Commission and has seen its stock price drop by around 10%."
"But the company's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, have remained silent. Neither has issued a public statement, and neither addressed employees at a company meeting about the controversy Tuesday."
"In their place, high-ranking managers with much less name recognition have taken to Twitter to defend the company — with mixed results."
"It's a tactic that Eden Gillott Bowe, president of crisis management firm Gillott Communications, likened to \"a really expensive, high-stakes game of chess.\""
"In times of scandal, it's not unusual for a company to send out a lower-ranking official with knowledge on the issue to speak rather than a top executive, Gillott Bowe said. The hope is that lower-ranking staff can quell concerns without risking more valuable pieces."
"\"If you start bringing in the king and queen, then it sends the message that this is a much bigger story than we thought it was going to be, it elevates the issue, and it creates a whole new news cycle,\" she said."
"When this practice works, the news cycle moves on and people quickly forget that there was ever an issue to begin with. But if the mounting pressure on Facebook and the company's falling stock price are anything to go by, the company's efforts at explaining away the controversy have so far failed to calm regulators and investors."
"The day before news broke of Cambridge's alleged activities, Facebook released a statement, attributed to deputy general counsel Paul Grewal, announcing that it had suspended the data mining firm for violating company guidelines."
"Facebook's head of hardware, Andrew Bosworth, added on Twitter that Facebook was committed to \"vigorously enforcing\" its policies and \"will take whatever steps are required to see that this happens.\" A day later, he tweeted to clarify that the violation was not a data breach and on Monday posted on his Facebook page a lengthy explanation of Cambridge Analytica's violations and the steps he says his company is taking to protect user data."
"Alex Stamos, Facebook's chief security officer, took to Twitter on Sunday to reiterate that Cambridge Analytica's violation of Facebook guidelines did not constitute a data breach. Hours later, he deleted those tweets, and wrote that he did so \"not because they were factually incorrect but because I should have done a better job weighing in.\""
"He went on: \"I'm going to step away from this one. I really care about privacy and security, as well as platform openness, freedom from censorship and stopping authoritarians who use the internet as a weapon. I just wish I was better about talking about these things in the reality of 2018.\""
"On Tuesday, Stamos was again on Twitter, disputing reports that he plans to leave Facebook because of disagreements with Sandberg over how the social network can halt the spread of misinformation."
"Throughout all this, Zuckerberg and Sandberg stayed mum."
"Despite being prolific Facebook users, Sandberg last posted on Saturday about being at a kids' debate day, and Zuckerberg last posted on March 2, commemorating Passover."
"Neither Stamos, Bosworth, nor Facebook responded to a request for comment. It is unclear whether Facebook encouraged or was aware of the employees' tweets before they were published."
"Executive silence after a scandal can help or hurt a company, according to crisis management experts. Speaking too soon — and claiming too much responsibility — can potentially put an executive on the hook when it comes to litigation and depositions."
"Dan Hill, the chief executive of communications strategy firm Hill Impact, gave the example of Mary Barra, who became CEO of General Motors around the time it issued safety recalls because of deadly ignition switches. After claiming full responsibility for the company's problems, \"she was never able to get away from it,\" Hill said."
"\"She became the centerpiece of it. She was the spokesperson for the company. On the one hand it may look like you're showing leadership, but if you're the spokesperson during the crisis, it can also be hugely distracting,\" he said."
"Zuckerberg might be familiar with the downside of a knee-jerk response. Days after the 2016 presidential election, he dismissed concerns that the dissemination of fake news on social media influenced the outcome of the election, telling an audience at a technology conference that it was a \"pretty crazy idea.\" A year later, he expressed regret at his comments and admitted that Facebook \"played a far bigger role in this election.\""
"Facebook announced Monday that it had hired a digital forensics firm to investigate the Cambridge Analytica matter. The firm paused its efforts at the request of the British Information Commissioner's Office, which is now conducting its own investigation."
"In a statement sent to ABC News, Facebook said: \"Mark, Sheryl and their teams are working around the clock to get all the facts and take appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.\""
"But staying silent for too long — especially when other communication efforts have failed to quell the controversy — can also do damage."
"\"The longer you stay silent, the more guilty you look,\" said Gillott Bowe. \"It's not always fair, but that's the way it works.\""
"It's not just a matter of looking guilty, either. Andrew Gilman, founder of the CommCore Consulting Group, said that executives with the power and influence of Zuckerberg and Sandberg have a responsibility to show that they care about their users and are taking steps to address the issue."
"\"It sounds like a playbook answer, but people really care about that kind of thing,\" Gilman said."
"He likened their silence to going to church and not hearing the standard prayers; audiences are quick to realize that something is missing."
"\"There's no such thing as 'no comment,'\" Gilman said. \"No comment, or lack of comment, can be perceived as damaging. And given that Facebook is all about communication, one would expect something.\""
"Facebook says user data of 87 million was shared with Cambridge Analytica"
" Personal data: Facebook says it will no longer allow apps to ask for access to users’ religious or political views, relationship status, education and work history and activity working out, reading books, listening to music, reading news, watching videos or playing games.  Events: Only specially approved apps will have access to a user’s guest list to events.  Groups: Apps will need approval to gain access to a group’s member list. Names and profile photos attached to group posts will no longer be accessible to apps. "
"As many as 87 million Facebook users had personal information improperly shared with political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, significantly more than what had previously been reported, the company said Wednesday."
"The affected accounts were mostly in the U.S., Facebook said in a blog post, which also outlined new restrictions on access to user data."
"Previously, it had been thought that 50 million users were ensnared in the data misappropriation scandal, which has presented Facebook with the biggest crisis in its 14-year history."
"The data was improperly passed to Cambridge Analytica through a psychology professor who developed a quiz app for Facebook. The professor was able to collect data from the nearly 300,000 people who downloaded his app, as well as their friends. He then broke Facebook rules by sharing that information with Cambridge Analytica, which worked on Donald Trump's presidential campaign and reportedly used the data to identify swing voters."
"Facebook was lambasted for not doing more to prevent the data leak or alerting the affected users immediately after it was discovered. But reports in the New York Times and the British newspaper the Observer last month raised pressure on Facebook to apologize and reevaluate its data-sharing and collection practices."
"During a rare conference call with reporters Wednesday, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg again pledged to better safeguard user information while also acknowledging he had failed to anticipate the ways the social network could be exploited."
"\"We're an optimistic and idealistic company,\" Zuckerberg said, citing the way Facebook has connected friends, given small businesses a larger presence and catapulted social movements."
"\"But it's clear now we didn't do enough,\" Zuckerberg said. \"We didn't focus enough on preventing abuse and thinking through how people can use these tools to do harm as well…. We didn't take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is, and that was a huge mistake. It was my mistake.\""
"To that end, the company announced Wednesday it was taking a number of steps that could change the way outside companies can leverage data from Facebook's 2 billion users."
"Those changes include limiting access to data pertaining to:"
"\"We have to ensure all those developers protect people's information too,\" Zuckerberg said."
"Facebook shares fell $1.01, or 0.7%, to $155.10 on Wednesday. The stock is down nearly 20% since a high Feb. 1."
"Zuckerberg says Facebook must protect user data or ‘we don't deserve to serve you’"
"Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that his company \"made mistakes\" in protecting user data obtained by Cambridge Analytica, but said steps already taken and new policies unveiled Wednesday would prevent developers from misappropriating such information in the future."
"Part regret, part explanation and part announcement of strategies to come, Zuckerberg's first comments since the Cambridge Analytica scandal erupted sought to reinforce Facebook's reputation as a trustworthy social platform despite the unauthorized collection of the personal data of about 50 million users by a data analytics firm with ties to President Trump's campaign."
"\"I started Facebook, and at the end of the day I'm responsible for what happens on our platform,\" he said in the statement. \"We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you.\""
"Zuckerberg later apologized for the sharing of the data during an interview on CNN on Wednesday evening."
"\"This was a major breach of trust, and I'm really sorry that this happened,\" he said."
"In a post on his Facebook page, Zuckerberg said the social media giant had already made efforts in 2014 to \"dramatically\" limit developers' access to data in an attempt to prevent \"abusive apps.\" Those steps, which prevent apps from asking for data about a user's friends without authorization, would prevent future groups similar to Cambridge Analytica from amassing so much information without users' knowledge, he said."
"Zuckerberg also said the company would investigate all apps that had access to \"large amounts of information\" prior to the changes made in 2014 and that Facebook would conduct a full audit of any app with \"suspicious activity.\""
"Developers that do not agree to a thorough audit will be banned, as well as developers that misuse personally identifiable information, he said. Affected users, including those whose data were allegedly misused in the Cambridge Analytica incident, will be notified by Facebook, Zuckerberg said."
"The Menlo Park, Calif., tech giant also said it would further restrict developers' access to data with measures such as reducing the data that users hand over to outside apps upon signing in to their name, profile picture and email address."
"Developers will be required by Facebook to get approval and sign a contract if they want to ask users for access to posts or other private data. And the social media giant said it would put a tool at the top of its News Feed showing users the apps they've used and giving them an \"easy way\" to revoke those apps' ability to access data."
"\"While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past,\" Zuckerberg wrote. \"We will learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward.\""
"Facebook has found itself on the defensive after the New York Times and British newspaper the Observer reported Cambridge Analytica, which is owned by conservative billionaire Robert Mercer, aimed to use Facebook user data in an attempt to sway voters' opinions. The company reportedly relied on a personality quiz developed by a Cambridge University researcher and downloaded by about 300,000 people that also gathered data from their friends on the platform."
"On Wednesday, Zuckerberg laid out a detailed timeline of events. He said the company learned in 2015 from journalists at the Guardian that the Cambridge researcher who developed the quiz app had improperly shared that data with Cambridge Analytica."
"Facebook has said the incident was a violation of the company's policies but did not constitute a data breach. Zuckerberg said Wednesday that Facebook immediately banned the researcher's app and demanded that he and Cambridge Analytica \"formally certify\" they had deleted all the improperly gathered data. He said they provided those documents to Facebook."
"Facebook then learned last week from the New York Times, the Guardian and BBC Channel 4 that \"Cambridge Analytica may not have deleted the data as they had certified,\" Zuckerberg said. He said the data mining firm claims it already deleted the data and has agreed to a forensic audit by a company hired by Facebook."
"The blowback has been swift. Facebook's stock has dropped 8.5% since Friday and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission has reportedly launched an investigation into whether Facebook violated a 2011 consent decree that required the company to obtain user permission for certain changes to privacy settings."
"An FTC spokesman said in a statement Wednesday that the agency was \"aware of the issues that have been raised but cannot comment on whether we are investigating.\""
"But Facebook's potential legal problems continue to mount. Attorneys general from New York and Massachusetts have called for additional investigations and on Tuesday, investors sued Facebook, saying the company's inability to protect user data led to its stock slump. Sens. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) demanded on Twitter that Zuckerberg testify before Congress."
"The steps Facebook has laid out to protect its users are a start but Zuckerberg still needs to come testify. Facebook should show good faith & support the Honest Ads Act. To truly regain the public’s trust, Facebook must make significant changes so this doesn’t happen again."
"You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath.https://t.co/DOYiISPtHD pic.twitter.com/HU2thpuVAD"
"\"To truly regain the public's trust, Facebook must make significant changes so this doesn't happen again,\" Klobuchar tweeted."
"On Wednesday, California state Treasurer and gubernatorial candidate John Chiang called for outside oversight during an interview on CNBC, saying that Facebook couldn't be left \"to their own devices\" to protect users' information."
"Zuckerberg and Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, had been roundly criticized for their silence in the days since the Cambridge Analytica data misappropriation scandal erupted. In a statement on Facebook released Wednesday, Sandberg said the company knew the incident was \"a major violation\" of trust."
"\"I deeply regret that we didn't do enough to deal with it,\" she wrote. \"Your trust is at the core of our service. We know that and we will work to earn it.\""
"At least one analyst said Zuckerberg's response was a \"step in the right direction.\""
"While the Cambridge Analytica issue will \"remain a dark cloud over the Facebook name in the near-term,\" Daniel Ives, head of technology research at GBH Insights, said the actions outlined in Zuckerberg's statement \"should help users, advertisers, and investors feel more comfortable that Facebook and Zuckerberg are starting to get their arms around this issue.\""
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg shows support for the idea of regulation — but not the particulars"
"  Column   "
"During historic testimony Tuesday on Capitol Hill, Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg made sure lawmakers knew his company was working hard to protect user data."
"\"I'm committed to getting this right,\" Zuckerberg told the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee and the Senate Judiciary Committee."
"WATCH LIVE: Day 2 of Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg's testimony before Congress »"
"But when it came to the subject of regulations that would enshrine user protections into law, the tech billionaire's answers were far more nebulous."
"\"You embrace regulation?\" Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) asked pointedly."
"\"I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people's lives, is what is the right regulation, not whether there should be or not,\" Zuckerberg replied."
"It was a telling moment that underscored the difficult balancing act Facebook is trying to execute."
"Chastened by more than a year of controversies that included Russian meddling, the spread of misinformation and data misappropriation, Zuckerberg had to appear sufficiently contrite and cooperative before the senators, experts say. But he also had to steer them away from the idea of stringent oversight."
"Zuckerberg's strategy required threading a needle — saying he supported regulations in principle, while pointing to a host of changes made by the company in recent weeks to win back consumer trust and get ahead of the controversy."
"\"If you fear regulation that you can't live with, you try to sit on the same side of the table as the regulators and help them 'get it right,' where getting it right means getting it so you can live with it,\" said Erik Gordon, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business."
"\"If he acts as if he is going to wrestle with the regulators, they won't invite him to the room where they cook up their regulations,\" Gordon continued. \"If he acts cooperative, he might get an invitation and a seat at the table.\""
"Holding that line will be tenuous. Any stated support by Zuckerberg for regulation risks being undermined by the company's lobbying efforts to block enhanced privacy protections in California and possibly Illinois, where industry is resisting a biometic privacy law."
"Hanging over the company too are new European Union rules that broadly limit how much personal data firms such as Facebook can access."
"Zuckerberg's comments suggest he is receptive to rules that don't challenge Facebook's core business, which requires leveraging personal information from a quarter of the world's population in exchange for billions of dollars in advertising revenue."
"As controversy mounted after the company was revealed to have mishandled user data in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Zuckerberg offered support for the Honest Ads Act, a bipartisan proposal to make online political advertising subject to the same disclosure and transparency rules placed on political ads in TV and print media."
"When Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) asked Zuckerberg if he would support a law that requires companies such as Facebook to notify users about data breaches within 72 hours, the executive said, \"That makes sense to me.\""
"In a best-case scenario for Facebook, such small gestures of support and moves to self-regulate will placate lawmakers enough to hold back strict regulation. Zuckerberg repeatedly volunteered to have his staff work with senators on matters of regulation."
"That approach would require restraint from some lawmakers, especially those whose constituencies view Facebook as beholden to shareholders rather than privacy, security and the nation's democratic system."
"\"Congressional politicians are under pressure to hold internet companies accountable for spreading malicious content that harms people,\" said Dipayan Ghosh, a fellow at New America and the Harvard Kennedy School and a former privacy and public policy advisor at Facebook. \"For some politicians, that'll mean advocacy for new regulation. For others, it'll mean using certain rhetoric. It depends on their respective constituencies.\""
"Working in Facebook's favor is the balance of power in both houses of Congress. Regulation-averse Republicans still retain control, though signs point to potential changes in the November midterm elections."
"During one exchange, Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) asked Zuckerberg to describe the kind of regulation he would want to see."
"\"In your view, what sorts of legislative changes would help to solve the problems the Cambridge Analytica story has revealed? And what sorts of legislative changes would not help to solve this issue?\" Hatch said."
"It was an opportunity to warn the senators that too much regulation could make it harder to compete — and Zuckerberg didn't miss a beat."
"\"There's a balance that's extremely important to strike here,\" Zuckerberg said, cautioning that America could fall behind China in cutting-edge technology like facial recognition software."
"\"We don't want to over-regulate where we're stifling innovation and investment,\" Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) said moments later."
"Mark Zuckerberg struggles to put his best Facebook forward during a day in the hot seat"
"When Mark Zuckerberg created Facebook in his Harvard dorm room 14 years ago, it was, in his own words, \"an idealistic and optimistic company\" meant to \"connect people\" in new ways."
"The Facebook chief executive, now 33, expanded that goal Tuesday when he and his social media empire inadvertently inspired a rare moment of bipartisanship on Capitol Hill."
"During a five-hour-long livestreamed congressional hearing, senators from both sides of the aisle appeared united in the sport of grilling the T-shirt-loving millennial billionaire who fooled exactly no one by wearing a stiff suit and tie that instead wore him."
"\"Would you be comfortable sharing the name of the hotel you stayed in last night?\" asked Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) well into hour two. Zuckerberg reflexively reached for the thin, plastic cup from which he'd already sipped a Sparkletts-tank worth of water, as if it might finally buoy his sinking testimony."
"No, answered Zuckerberg in a semi-mumble. He wouldn't feel comfortable doing so publicly."
"\"This is what this is all about,\" said Durbin, \"your right to privacy and how much you give away in modern America in the name of 'connecting people around the world.'\""
"It was another newsworthy moment of the old guard vs. the new guard. But this time around, it wasn't Gen Y's Parkland students driven by loss, tragedy and the courage to challenge politics as usual. It was politicians, many in their 70s and 80s, fighting for their constituents rather than against each other for a change. In a news cycle filled with the chaos we now expect — FBI raids, porn star payouts, a Syrian tragedy being leveraged for distraction — it felt like one place where perhaps the old system was still working."
"Dozens of senators had five minutes each to question Zuckerberg, who's been in and out of the hot seat for the past decade thanks to his company's reckless handling of user data and privacy. He reportedly rehearsed extensively for this appearance."
"The catalyst for his \"latest apology tour,\" as one news analyst called it, was the recently revealed scandal involving the political data firm Cambridge Analytica that was contracted by Trump's election campaign. Then-Breitbart publisher Stephen Bannon reportedly co-founded Cambridge Analytica with financial backing from billionaire Robert Mercer. The firm accessed the private information of more than 87 million Facebook users. Monday, Facebook informed its users that the data theft also included information from its users' private messages."
"The majority of the senators who questioned Zuckerberg demanded accountability for a history of missteps, wanting to know what proactive steps were being taken to avoid future privacy breaches, data mining, Russian cyber meddling and the dissemination of fake news. But they didn't always understand his answers."
"Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), 62, asked Zuckerberg who was Facebook's main competition. The young entrepreneur, who looked paler by the hour, said there was more than one answer."
"There are various crossover services provided by companies such as Google and Amazon, he said. But they are different from Twitter, which is also a competitor but…"
"If I buy a Ford, and it doesn’t work well, and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset at Facebook, what’s the equivalent?… I can sign up for?"
"Graham interrupted: “If I buy a Ford, and it doesn’t work well, and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset at Facebook, what’s the equivalent?… I can sign up for?” And “Is Twitter the same as what you do?”"
"The 84-year-old Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah), who commented that the event was the most intensive technology hearing he’d been involved in since the Microsoft hearings he chaired back in the 1990s, asked, “How do you sustain a business model in which users don’t pay for service?”"
"“Senator, we run ads,” answered Zuckerberg."
"\"I see,\" said Hatch. \"That's great.\""
"You could almost hear the exasperated sighs of the onlookers in the chamber, who, unlike the rows of senators, mostly appeared to be below retirement age. Throngs of spectators had lined the hallway to see the anticipated proceeding, while a collection of young reporters typed away on computers, perhaps posting about the event on Instagram because Facebook is, like, old."
"Zuckerberg was swarmed by photographers when he entered the room around 2 p.m., and they snapped away furiously as he steeled himself into the hot seat. He began with a short speech delivered in an apologetic tone."
"“It’s clear now that we didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well,” he said. “And that goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy.”"
"But as congressperson after congressperson pressed him for specifics — what are the steps you’re taking now to preempt Russian propaganda, and why didn’t you warn consumers earlier that their data may have been harvested for nefarious reasons back when it happened — Zuckerberg began speaking like, well, a politician."
"\"We're working on it.\" \"I don't have that exact figure.\" \"I'll have my team get back to you.\""
"Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) said that she couldn’t figure out if Zuckerberg was outfoxing the foxes, or if he was going along with “a major trend in the information age of trying to harvest information for political forces.”"
"\"I believe you have all the talent. My question is, do you have all the will to solve this problem?\" she said. \"Everyone in the world deserves good privacy detection.\""
"Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) directly challenged Zuckerberg’s claims that Facebook had made significant progress in blocking Russian hacker accounts. The congressman had an assistant hold up a a posterboard plastered with images of sketchy-looking Facebook pages."
"\"These unverified, divisive pages are on Facebook today,\" said Leahy. \"They look a lot like the anonymous [content] of Russian agencies used to spread propaganda during the 2016 election.\""
"“You’re asking about those specifically?” said Zuckerberg, who appeared surprised by being pressed on such details."
"\"I'll have my team get back to you,\" he added reflexively."
"The final question came from Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). \"You said multiple times during this hearing that I own the data… That sounds good, but in practice you're making $40 billion a year. I'm not making money on it. It feels like you own the data. Could you give me some idea on how you can honestly say it's my data?\""
"But the glass of water was running dry, as was Zuckerberg. He’ll have to get back to us."
"Facebook was never free: What Mark Zuckerberg's shocking admissions reveal"
"“It’s time to protect yourself — and your friends — from Facebook,” read the click-bait headline Monday on Mashable, one of many columns this week decrying how Cambridge Analytica, a firm aligned with the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump, scraped and mined data from many millions of unsuspecting users of the social network and allegedly used them for nefarious political purposes."
"And what was the preferred snare of Cambridge Analytica? A dumb personality quiz that offered to tell you more about yourself. Talk about the perfect bait for this age of self-obsession when we're all interested primarily in the nature and importance of ourselves."
"For anyone who works for a beleaguered professional news organization — over which the revenue-sucking, content-stealing Facebook has reigned of late with a palpable glee — there was major schadenfreude to be had on Thursday. Facebook's CEO and COO, Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, respectively, both of whom have positioned themselves as where-the-puck-is-going predictors and guardians of the culture, initially had disappeared in the face of a sudden crisis of trust threatening their own wealth. This is what overcautious executives are wont to do, of course, unless they finally listen to someone telling them that they are falling behind the story, that their brand is headed straight for the toilet and that an honest, personal response is the only solution."
"Incredibly — truly incredibly — on Thursday, Zuckerberg seemed at least mildly in favor of some government regulation. For a social network at the center of the great wave of amateurization, an entity that has aimed to both control and replace news organizations like this one with stories posted by those who are not required to state their conflicts of interest, and do not fool yourself otherwise, here was a stunning statement."
"You would not find many of the journalists sitting in Tribune Tower — for a few more weeks, anyway — so blithely inviting in some government oversight. Au contraire. We'd be taking to the barricades. We have quotations in our lobby arguing that, in a democracy, the power balance needs to be the other way around: we’re supposed to keep them in check."
"Zuckerberg, though, was trying to preserve the highly profitable fiction of Facebook neutrality. In essence, he finally admitted that he wanted government protection from the downside of his own toxic content. Until this week, he had thrived by claiming that this was not, really, his content. But this week, finally, he had come to see that giving voice, say, to fascists and Russian political meddlers was a practice that was starting to threaten everything."
"Zuckerberg’s admission was one of those Oprah-style aha moments. A gotcha. A revelation of the Oz-ian man fiddling with machines behind the curtain. You’re not a news organization at all, or even a community-building one, pal. Actually, you’re a data-mining and microtargeting operation for your own profit. You might have genuinely been deceived here by those smart faux academics with the posh Cambridge name, but you’re still all about monetizing analytics, dude, when you're claiming to be all about the intersection of news and friendship."
"Life being complex, ironies abound here, not that most people are are looking for them these days."
"That anti-Facebook Mashable story was intended to be shareable — yes, on Facebook. So now we have stories perfectly tailored to Facebook, that are dependent on Facebook and are decrying Facebook. Get your head around that."
"Of course, it was hard for me to read that Mashable story online without being asked for my personal data, which Mashable really, really wanted. And honesty also requires me to point out that my employers, who have their own problems of disclosure, similarly are interested in your data, albeit for business rather than political purposes. That's assuming you believe you can separate the two."
"By Thursday, National Review had come up with the counternarrative to the sudden anti-Facebook sentiment among progressives this week, pointing out that the Obama administration had been widely lauded during the 2012 election for (in part) using the Facebook profiles of a wide swath of people not just to predict how they might vote in the election, but how to turn those electors into someone who might vote for Obama."
"So sophisticated was Obama's microtargeting operation — based mostly in Chicago — that Sasha Issenberg could write in the MIT Technology Review that the campaign already knew the names of most of the people who had voted for Obama in 2008. The Obama campaign’s doings were nowhere near as close to Cambridge Analytica as the National Review claimed, but at least two points were irrefutable: The Obama campaign absolutely encouraged and developed influencers who we might previously have thought were merely our friends. And the evidence shows that our tolerance for friendship-fused data-scraping without our specific permission clearly varies according to how much we like or hate whomever is doing the scraping."
"We are just so absurdly naive. Persistently so. And the truly terrifying realization this week is how well this is understood by people who have agendas, people who do not necessarily wish us well."
"Maybe we are witnessing the ultimate corruption of friendship in this moment, or at least the revelation of the destruction of what used to be friendship, back when we actually talked in person and did not hide behind our screens. More likely, though, this is the comeuppance for our exaggerated sense of self-importance, our wrongheaded belief that while the behavior of everyone else could be predicted with the right data, while everyone else has their own agendas, we ourselves are beautiful, shining beacons of individuality, spontaneity and honorably ethical opinion."
"Nope. But back to that question about deleting your Facebook account. Go ahead (wish I could, but I can't, not in this job)."
"But know this first."
"Back in the 19th century, a lot of reform-minded European writers — H.G. Wells, George Bernard Shaw, Henrik Ibsen — became interested in eugenics, which boiled down to the belief that since stupid people tend to elect stupid leaders, power should therefore reside not with the aristocratic but an intellectual elite. Winston Churchill had some sympathy with this point of view, the absurd subway-train scene in the movie “The Darkest Hour” notwithstanding."
"But if the 20th century has taught us anything, it is that this way fascism lies. (You can currently see all of this under debate in “An Enemy of the People” at the Goodman Theatre)."
"Ordinary people are not rocks; they cannot merely be mined for analytics and their friendships should not be abused. By anyone. In this age of technology, social media has become the vox populi. It is a crucial check on governments, and, yes, on journalists and news organizations, including your Chicago Tribune."
"But we now all see that Facebook was never free."
"We all paid a price. We just didn’t see the digital fingers probing our insecurities."
"Chris Jones is a Tribune critic."
"cjones5@chicagotribune.com"
"Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg faces long-awaited 'reckoning' in Congress"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is scheduled to appear before Congress next week."
"When Mark Zuckerberg testifies to the U.S. Congress next week, the Facebook chief executive will face off with lawmakers who have long been itching to confront him - on everything from a privacy mishap involving 87 million users to a litany of issues that have dogged the company for years."
"\"I think we're at a moment of reckoning. It's really high noon for Facebook and the tech industry,\" Democratic Sen. Richard Blumenthal, Conn., one of the senators who is set to grill Zuckerberg, said in an interview."
"Zuckerberg's scheduled appearance at two congressional hearings beginning Tuesday marks the first time that the tech leader will submit to questioning at the Capitol. For more than a decade, Zuckerberg had dodged the congressional spotlight, slipping away from the sort of high-drama, made-for-television Washington interrogations that had befallen some of his tech industry peers. But the controversy around Cambridge Analytica, a data analysis firm that improperly accessed Facebook users' data, has left Facebook's founder newly exposed to the political firestorm."
"Now, the stakes are sky high for Zuckerberg, whose every statement -- likely under oath -- will carry immense legal and political weight. His company is under investigation around the world, including a probe in the United States that threatens Facebook with fines that could reach into the trillions of dollars. And Zuckerberg's testimony could fuel new efforts to regulate not only Facebook but the whole of the tech industry, at a time when lawmakers increasingly are wondering if Silicon Valley is out of control."
"To Blumenthal, it's Facebook's \"unsafe at any speed moment.\" The senator was referring to the legislative onslaught that befell car makers in the 1960s following revelations that they had manifestly failed to protect passengers from harm."
"A spokesman for Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Earlier this week, Zuckerberg pledged to rethink his company's privacy practices. \"We didn't take a broad enough view of what our responsibility is, and that was a huge mistake. It was my mistake,\" he told reporters."
"Zuckerberg's gauntlet begins with a rare, joint hearing Tuesday before two Senate panels - the Commerce Committee and the Judiciary Committee. As many as 43 members, almost half of the entire Senate, are set to pepper the Facebook executive with questions. A day later, the House Energy and Commerce Committee plans to follow suit."
"Lawmakers last month called on Zuckerberg to appear to respond to the controversy around Cambridge Analytica. Since then, Facebook's problems have worsened, including the revelation this week that what it called \"malicious actors\" could have accessed information, including names and profile photos, about most of the social network's more than 2 billion users."
"To start, some members of Congress said they want Zuckerberg at his hearings to offer specifics about Cambridge Analytica - and Facebook's privacy practices writ large -- even beyond the information the company has shared in recent weeks."
"\"More than any one issue, I'm interested in Mark Zuckerberg's vision for the responsibility Facebook plans to take for what happens on its platform, how it will protect users' data, and how it intends to proactively stop harmful conduct instead of being forced to respond to it months or years later,\" said Republican Sen. John Thune (S.D.), the leader of the Senate Commerce Committee, in a statement."
"New Jersey Rep. Frank Pallone, the top Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, emphasized that his chief concern is \"how many Cambridge Analytica types are out there\" that aren't yet public, he said in an interview. A Republican counterpart on the panel, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Tenn., said she was most frustrated that Facebook had \"turned their users into the product that they are selling.\""
"Democratic Sen. Ed Markey, Mass., one of his committee's most outspoken advocates for a new online privacy law, said he wants to know if there's any \"recourse for victims\" from Facebook's recent privacy mishaps. For years, Markey has written letters to the social giant, imploring it to improve its data-protection practices. His efforts helped inform a decision by the Federal Trade Commission to penalize the company in 2011."
"The Massachusetts Democrat said he'd next press Zuckerberg on how the company ensures \"the integrity and safety of the platform.\" Markey specifically cited an old memo, written by a Facebook vice president and recently unearthed by BuzzFeed, that described \"bullying and terrorist attacks\" as the regular \"costs of doing business\" on the site."
"Previously, Facebook had warded off such invites from Congress. Lawmakers had tried as recently as October to press Zuckerberg and his counterparts at Google and Twitter about the ways that the Russian government spread propaganda on their platforms around the 2016 presidential election. But the top executives sent their leading lawyers to testify in their place, to the chagrin of Democrats and Republicans."
"Zuckerberg's appearance next week gives now lawmakers another opportunity to raise questions that still linger about the election. \"What I care the most about is. . . what has this done, what is it doing to democracy?\" said Democratic Rep. Anna Eshoo (Calif.), a member of the House committee, who represents a slice of Silicon Valley."
"Republicans, meanwhile, recently have been fuming that Facebook is biased against their viewpoints, to the detriment of conservative employees and news sources. At Facebook's last major appearance on Capitol Hill, Republican Sen. Ted Cruz (Texas) slammed the company as well as Google and Twitter for what he perceived as censorship."
"And the hearings starting Tuesday may force Zuckerberg to confront his industry's ever-souring reputation in the nation's capital, where lawmakers increasingly question if tech giants can police themselves."
"\"What I see are incredibly innovative and powerful companies that dominate on their platforms, whether that's Facebook, whether that's Google, whether that's Amazon,\" said Republican Rep. Greg Walden, Ore., who runs the House Energy and Commerce Committee. \"But like all good things, if you get too big too quickly you may not have the self-regulation in place that ultimately consumers demand.\""
"Zuckerberg is hardly the first tech titan to sit across from a dais of peeved federal lawmakers. In 2011, Eric Schmidt, then the executive chairman of Google, was summoned to explain whether the search giant had sought to disadvantage its smaller rivals. Two years later, the Senate trained its sights on Apple, grilling chief executive Tim Cook on allegations that the company dodged billions of dollars in U.S. taxes by keeping its cash offshore. Both executives were subject to scrutiny well beyond what lawmakers saw as their immediate offenses."
"This time, the frustration with Facebook on Capitol Hill initially threatened to draw Google and Twitter into the fray. Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, the leader of the Judiciary Committee, even invited those two companies' chief executives to testify. But Senate leaders ultimately chose not to require either tech giant to appear - a victory for Google and Twitter, which privately had grumbled for days that they had done nothing wrong and didn't deserve to sit next to Zuckerberg."
"Yet Zuckerberg's back-to-back appearances on Capitol Hill still threatens to implicate them all anyway -- triggering a new push for privacy regulation, another round of congressional hearings and a continued shift in web users' impressions of tech giants, Facebook and otherwise, that they once revered."
"GOP Rep. Blackburn, for one, said in an interview she'd push Zuckerberg to support privacy legislation that would require tech companies to obtain permission before selling users' data -- a proposal that Facebook and its tech peers have vocally opposed. As the leader of a tech-focused subcommittee, Blackburn also said she's considering a hearing of her own soon focused on tech companies' powerful algorithms."
"Broadly, though, lawmakers signaled that they're ready to confront Facebook on its many recent missteps. \"We can no longer go with the mantra 'trust us' because they have proven untrustworthy,\" Blumenthal said about Facebook. \"Whether intentionally or inadvertently, they have really in effect betrayed that trust.\""
"Facebook's Zuckerberg apologizes for 'major breach of trust' in wake of data-mining scandal"
"Cambridge Analytica's sign is seen at their offices in London on March 21, 2018. "
"Breaking five days of silence, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg apologized for a \"major breach of trust,\" admitted mistakes and outlined steps to protect user data in light of a privacy scandal involving a Trump-connected data-mining firm."
"\"I am really sorry that happened,\" Zuckerberg said of the scandal involving data mining firm Cambridge Analytica. Facebook has a \"responsibility\" to protect its users' data, he said in a Wednesday interview on CNN. If it fails, he said, \"we don't deserve to have the opportunity to serve people.\""
"His mea culpa on cable television came a few hours after he acknowledged his company's mistakes in a Facebook post, but without saying he was sorry."
"Zuckerberg and Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, had been quiet since news broke Friday that Cambridge may have used data improperly obtained from roughly 50 million Facebook users to try to sway elections. Cambridge's clients included Donald Trump's general-election campaign."
"Facebook shares have dropped some 8 percent, lopping about $46 billion off the company's market value, since the revelations were first published."
"In the CNN interview, Zuckerberg offered equivocal and carefully hedged answers to two other questions. He said, for instance, that he would be \"happy\" to testify before Congress, but only if it was \"the right thing to do.\" He went on to note that many other Facebook officials might be more appropriate witnesses depending on what Congress wanted to know."
"Similarly, the Facebook chief seemed at one point to favor regulation for Facebook and other internet giants — at least the \"right\" kind of rules, he said, such as ones that require online political ads to disclose who paid for them. In almost the next breath, however, Zuckerberg steered clear of endorsing a bill that would write such rules into federal law, and instead talked up Facebook's own voluntary efforts on that front."
"Facebook's recent suspension of Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics firm that played a key role in President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, highlights the rapid rise of a company that claimed it had reached new heights in marrying the art of political persuasion with the science of big data."
"Four..."
"Even before the scandal broke, Facebook has already taken the most important steps to prevent a recurrence, Zuckerberg said. For example, in 2014, it reduced access outside apps had to user data. However, some of the measures didn't take effect until a year later, allowing Cambridge to access the data in the intervening months."
"Zuckerberg acknowledged that there is more to do."
"In his Facebook post, Zuckerberg said it will ban developers who don't agree to an audit. An app's developer will no longer have access to data from people who haven't used that app in three months. Data will also be generally limited to user names, profile photos and email, unless the developer signs a contract with Facebook and gets user approval."
"In a separate post, Facebook said it will inform people whose data was misused by apps. Facebook first learned of this breach of privacy more than two years ago, but hadn't mentioned it publicly until Friday."
"he head of Trump-affiliated data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica has been suspended, while government authorities are bearing down on both the firm and Facebook over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users to manipulate elections."
"Cambridge's board of directors suspended..."
"The company said it was \"building a way\" for people to know if their data was accessed by \"This Is Your Digital Life,\" the psychological-profiling quiz app that researcher Aleksandr Kogan created and paid about 270,000 people to take part in. Cambridge Analytica later obtained information from the app for about 50 million Facebook users, as the app also vacuumed up data on people's friends — including those who never downloaded the app or gave explicit consent."
"Chris Wylie, a Cambridge co-founder who left in 2014, has said one of the firm's goals was to influence people's perceptions by injecting content, some misleading or false, all around them. It's not clear whether Facebook would be able to tell users whether they had seen such content."
"Cambridge has shifted the blame to Kogan, which the firm described as a contractor. Kogan described himself as a scapegoat."
"Kogan, a psychology researcher at Cambridge University, told the BBC that both Facebook and Cambridge Analytica have tried to place the blame on him, even though the firm ensured him that everything he did was legal."
"\"One of the great mistakes I did here was I just didn't ask enough questions,\" he said. \"I had never done a commercial project. I didn't really have any reason to doubt their sincerity. That's certainly something I strongly regret now.\""
"He said the firm paid some $800,000 for the work, but it went to participants in the survey."
"\"My motivation was to get a dataset I could do research on,\" he said. \"I have never profited from this in any way personally.\""
"Authorities in Britain and the United States are investigating."
"David Carroll, a professor at Parsons School of Design in New York who sued Cambridge Analytica in the U.K., said he was not satisfied with Zuckerberg's response, but acknowledged that \"this is just the beginning.\""
"He said it was \"insane\" that Facebook had yet to take legal action against Cambridge parent SCL Group over the inappropriate data use. Carroll himself sued Cambridge Friday to recover data on him that the firm had obtained."
"Sandy Parakilas, who worked in data protection for Facebook in 2011 and 2012, told a U.K. parliamentary committee Wednesday that the company was vigilant about its network security but lax when it came to protecting users' data."
"He said personal data including email addresses and in some cases private messages was allowed to leave Facebook servers with no real controls on how the data was used after that."
"\"The real challenge here is that Facebook was allowing developers to access the data of people who hadn't explicitly authorized that,\" he said, adding that the company had \"lost sight\" of what developers did with the data."
"Danica Kirka and Gregory Katz reported from London. AP Technology Writer Mae Anderson in New York contributed to this story."
"'I am sorry': Facebook's Zuckerberg faces congressional inquisition"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's prepared testimony was released April 9, ahead of his appearance at a Senate committee hearing and before the House Energy and Commerce Committee."
"

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's prepared testimony was released April 9, ahead of his appearance at a Senate committee hearing and before the House Energy and Commerce Committee."
"After privately assuring senators that his company will do better, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is undergoing a two-day congressional inquisition that will be very public — and possibly pivotal for the massive social networking company he created."
"Zuckerberg visited with senators in closed-door meetings Monday, previewing the public apology he plans to give Congress on Tuesday after revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm affiliated with Donald Trump's presidential campaign, gathered personal information from 87 million users to try to influence elections."
"He's apologized many times already, to users and the public, but it is the first time in his career that he has gone before Congress. Zuckerberg will testify before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees on Tuesday and before a House panel on Wednesday."
"In the hearings, Zuckerberg will not only try to restore public trust in his company but also stave off federal regulation that some lawmakers have floated. In prepared testimony released Monday by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which he is expected to deliver Wednesday, Zuckerberg apologizes for fake news, hate speech, a lack of data privacy and Russian social media interference in the 2016 elections."
"\"We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake,\" he says in the remarks. \"It was my mistake, and I'm sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I'm responsible for what happens here.\""
"After resisting previous calls to testify, Zuckerberg agreed to come to Capitol Hill this month after reports surfaced — and the company confirmed — that Cambridge Analytica had gathered Facebook users' data. In the remarks, Zuckerberg said his company has a responsibility to make sure what happened with Cambridge Analytica doesn't happen again."
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg arrives at a meeting with U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), ranking member of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, on April 9, 2018, on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C."
"Zuckerberg is also expected to be asked about Russia's use of U.S. social media during the 2016 elections — a subject of several congressional investigations and special counsel Robert Mueller's probe into Russian interference."
"In the statement, Zuckerberg addresses Russian election interference and acknowledges, as he has in the past, that the company was too slow to respond and that it's \"working hard to get better.\" The company has said that as many as 146 million people may have received information from a Russian agency that's accused of orchestrating much of the cyber meddling in the election."
"\"We will continue working with the government to understand the full extent of Russian interference, and we will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world, but also to give everyone a voice and to be a force for good in democracy everywhere,\" Zuckerberg continues."
"In the testimony, Zuckerberg acknowledges that the questioning will likely be hostile."
"Congress has plenty of questions for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who will testify on Capitol Hill Tuesday and Wednesday about the company's ongoing data-privacy scandal and how it failed to guard against other abuses of its service."
"Facebook is struggling to cope with the worst privacy crisis..."
"\"We face a number of important issues around privacy, safety, and democracy, and you will rightfully have some hard questions for me to answer,\" Zuckerberg says."
"The prepared remarks do not reveal new information about how data was shared or what Facebook will do. In addition to saying he is sorry, Zuckerberg outlines the steps the company has taken to restrict outsiders' access to people's personal information. He also says the company is investigating every app that had access to a large amount of information before the company moved to prevent such access in 2014 — something that came too late in the Cambridge Analytica case."
"Zuckerberg met Monday with Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, the top Democrat on the Senate Commerce panel. Nelson said afterward that Zuckerberg was \"forthright and honest to the degree he could\" be in the private, one-on-one meeting."
"Nelson said he believes Zuckerberg is taking the congressional hearings seriously \"because he knows there is going to be a hard look at regulation.\""
"Democrats like Nelson have argued that federal laws might be necessary to ensure user privacy. Republicans so far have shown little appetite for such regulation, but that could change if there are future privacy scandals or Democrats gain control of Congress in this November's elections."
"\"I think he understands that regulation could be right around the corner,\" Nelson said."
"Zuckerberg was also scheduled to meet with Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and Senate Commerce Committee Chairman John Thune, R-S.D., ahead of Tuesday's hearing."
"Separately, Zuckerberg said in a Facebook post Monday that the company is establishing an independent election research commission that will look into the effects of social media on elections and democracy. He said the commission will work with foundations across the U.S. to set up a committee of academic experts who will come up with research topics and select independent researchers to study them."
"Ortutay reported from New York."
"Facebook's Zuckerberg to testify before Congress: report"
"In this May 25, 2017, file photo, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg delivers the commencement address at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass. Published reports say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is planning to testify before Congress about how his company collects and uses people's data."
"Published reports say Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is planning to testify before Congress about how his company collects and uses people's data."
"Citing unnamed sources, CNN said in a report Tuesday that Zuckerberg has \"come to terms\" with the fact that he'll have to testify in a matter of weeks. A Facebook representative said the company has received invitations to appear before congress and is talking to legislators but would not confirm Zuckerberg's attendance."
"Zuckerberg said last week in a CNN interview that he'd be \"happy to\" testify if he is the right person to do it. The company is facing unprecedented scrutiny following reports that a data mining firm used ill-gotten data from tens of millions of its users to try to influence elections."
"A spokeswoman for the House Energy and Commerce Committee said Tuesday that reports of Zuckerberg's confirmed attendance are \"incorrect.\" But she added that the committee is \"continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify.\""
"Yes, Mark Zuckerberg will wear a suit for Congress testimony"
"Barbara Ortutay, Ap Technology Writer"
"Caption"
"Close"
"NEW YORK (AP) — Yes, Mark Zuckerberg will wear a suit."
"Though best known for his \"uniform\" of jeans, sneakers and a fitted gray T-shirt — adding a hoodie if the weather demands — the Facebook CEO will don a suit and tie when he testifies before Congress this week. He already did Monday, when he met with lawmakers ahead of Tuesday's and Wednesday's grillings."
"The 33-year-old billionaire is no stranger to suits. In 2009, he wore a tie every day, the first of what have become his yearly \"personal challenges.\""
"Back then, the U.S. economy was in a deep recession and Facebook was not yet profitable. The company \"needed to get serious about making sure Facebook had a sustainable business model,\" he wrote on his Facebook page this January. \"It was a serious year, and I wore a tie every day as a reminder.\""
"Mark Zuckerberg Tells Congress Facebook Didn’t Do Enough to Protect Data On Monday, Zuckerberg’s prepared comments to Congress were released by the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee. Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook Zuckerberg will continue his testimony to the Senate tomorrow and then again on Wednesday in front of the Energy and 
Commerce Committee. Facebook is also under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission for its protection and use of user data."
"Today \"feels a lot like that first year,\" he added. The world feels \"anxious and divided\" and Facebook, he wrote, has a lot of work to do."
"His personal challenge for 2018 is to fix Facebook."
"While wearing a suit won't fix Facebook, it will serve as an outward sign that Zuckerberg is treating his testimony seriously. The CEO had rankled Wall Street back in 2012 when he paraded around in a hoodie when meeting with investors about the company's initial public stock offering."
"Since then, though, he's often donned a suit when meeting with world leaders such as China's president, Xi Jinping or former President Barack Obama. He also wore a suit and black tie during his backyard wedding to Dr. Priscilla Chan in 2012, and last year when he gave a commencement speech at Harvard."
"On more ordinary days, though, Zuckerberg turns to his usual attire. But he's not unique among Silicon Valley titans in wearing the same thing every day. Late Apple CEO Steve Jobs wore jeans and a black turtleneck. Both had their shirts specially designed and made for them, though it is possible to purchase copycats online."
"Asked in a 2014 \"town hall\" with Facebook users why he wears what he wears, Zuckerberg said it's so he has to make \"as few decisions as possible about anything except how to best serve this community.\""
"
                
          US & World
        
              "
"Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg to Capitol Hill: 'It was my mistake, and I'm sorry.'"
"Craig Timberg and Tony Romm, The Washington Post"
"However, according to the Washington Post, Facebook is also able track other data points given the information you enter. These data points include income, net worth, home ownership, home value and even property size, square footage of home, and the year your home was built."
"However, according to the Washington Post, Facebook is also able track other data points given the information you enter. These data points include income, net worth, home ownership,"
"The company states on its Data Policy page that it tracks any payments you make on Facebook (when you click an ad), including games and donations. Per Facebook, this includes \"credit or debit card number and other card information, and other account and authentication information, as well as billing, shipping and contact details.\""
"The company states on its Data Policy page that it tracks any payments you make on Facebook (when you click an ad), including games and donations. Per Facebook,"
"Facebook states that they \"collect information\" about phones, computers, tablets and any other devices that you download their services on. Per Facebook, this information includes device settings, battery and signal strength, specific geographic locations of devices through GPS, Bluetooth, or WiFi signals, language, time zone, mobile phone number and IP address."
"Facebook states that they \"collect information\" about phones, computers, tablets and any other devices that you download their services on. Per Facebook, this"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg expressed contrition for allowing third-party apps to grab the data of its users without their permission and for being \"too slow to spot and respond to Russian interference\" during the U.S. election, according to his prepared remarks published by the House Energy and Commerce Committee."
"Zuckerberg plans to open his remarks with a familiar recitation of the social media platform's ability to link far-flung people together but then pivot into an acknowledgment of Facebook's increasingly visible dark side."
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is meeting privately with lawmakers on Monday ahead of his first time testifying on Capitol Hill. (April 9)"
"\"It's clear now that we didn't do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well,\" Zuckerberg plans to tell lawmakers. \"That goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy. We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake. It was my mistake, and I'm sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I'm responsible for what happens here.\""
"Zuckerberg Testimony House Committee by Houston Chronicle on Scribd"
"The testimony's release, ahead of the first of two hearings this week, came as a suit-clad Zuckerberg and some of his top lobbyists and aides made the rounds on Capitol Hill, huddling with lawmakers who planned to grill him Tuesday and Wednesday. The meetings included a session with Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida, the top Democrat on the Commerce Committee, as a cluster of reporters waited outside."
"Exiting that meeting, Zuckerberg ignored shouted questions from reporters. Nelson afterward said he pressed the Facebook chief executive on everything from its privacy practices to the efforts by Russian agents to spread disinformation on social media during the 2016 election."
"\"If we don't rein in the misuse of social media, none of us are going to have any privacy anymore,\" Nelson said."
"The company has been reeling since the November 2016 election, during which phony news reports spread widely on its platform and Russian operatives mounted an ambitious campaign to divide American voters, damage Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and bolster the chances of Republican candidate Donald Trump."
"Facebook appeared to be recovering from those controversies until last month's revelation that a political consultancy hired by Trump and other Republicans improperly gained access to data on 87 million Facebook users, including 71 million Americans. The company acknowledged last week a separate problem in which \"malicious actors\" were able to identify and collect data on Facebook users on such a massive scale that most of the company's 2.2 billion users were affected."
"As the company has mobilized to quell rising political opposition, including the possibility of major legislation affecting how technology companies handle user data, Facebook also is battling government investigations in the United States and Europe. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating alleged violations of a 2011 consent decree over privacy policy at Facebook that could lead to record fines against the company."
"To read this article in one of Houston's most-spoken languages, click on the button below."
"The release of the testimony, for Wednesday's appearance before the House Energy and Commerce Committee, is part of a major public relations push by Facebook to acknowledge its failings in protecting user privacy and not acting quickly enough to thwart several Russian disinformation campaigns, including one during the 2016 presidential election."
"Zuckerberg was scheduled to meet with Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., chairman of the Commerce Committee, and Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman of the Judiciary Committee. The Facebook chief executive also planned to appear before a Senate committee hearing on Tuesday. Those remarks are expected to be similar."
"\"It's not enough to just connect people, we have to make sure those connections are positive,\" Zuckerberg plans to say in his testimony. \"It's not enough to just give people a voice, we have to make sure people aren't using it to hurt people or spread misinformation. It's not enough to give people control of their information, we have to make sure developers they've given it to are protecting it too.\""
"Facebook has announced measures in recent weeks to tighten how it handles user data, bring new transparency to who is behind political advertising and work more openly with outside researchers, who long have complained that the company's platform was walled off from meaningful analysis of its content and impacts."
"The company on Monday also began notifying users whose data was improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica, the political consultancy hired by Trump and other Republicans. The kind of data-sharing that Cambridge Analytica took advantage of in 2014 was widespread among app developers before Facebook began tightening its data-use policies that year. Before the changes, outside app developers could gain access to a wide range of user data - including their full names, home towns, work histories, religious affiliations and Facebook \"likes\" - without the explicit permission of most users."
"Among the pledges made by Zuckerberg is a promise to better protect Facebook from exploitation in time to safeguard the 2018 congressional election."
"Watch live: Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg testifies before Congress"
"Mary Clare Jalonick and Barbara Ortutay, Associated Press"
"• House hearing on 'Facebook: Transparency and Use of Consumer Data\": Wednesday, April 11 at 10:00 am ET / 7 am PT"
"WASHINGTON (AP) — Under fire for the worst privacy debacle in his company's history, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg batted away often-aggressive questioning from lawmakers who accused him of failing to protect the personal information of millions of Americans from Russians intent on upsetting the U.S. election."
"During some five hours of Senate questioning Tuesday, Zuckerberg apologized several times for Facebook failures, disclosed that his company was \"working with\" special counsel Robert Mueller in the federal probe of Russian election interference and said it was working hard to change its own operations after the harvesting of users' private data by a data-mining company affiliated with Donald Trump's campaign."
"Seemingly unimpressed, Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota said Zuckerberg's company had a 14-year history of apologizing for \"ill-advised decisions\" related to user privacy. \"How is today's apology different?\" Thune asked."
"\"We have made a lot of mistakes in running the company,\" Zuckerberg conceded, and Facebook must work harder at ensuring the tools it creates are used in \"good and healthy\" ways."
"The controversy has brought a flood of bad publicity and sent the company's stock value plunging, but Zuckerberg seemed to achieve a measure of success in countering that: Facebook shares surged 4.5 percent for the day, the biggest gain in two years."
"In all, he skated largely unharmed through his first day of congressional testimony. He'll face House questioners Wednesday."
"The 33-year-old founder of the world's best-known social media giant appeared in a suit and tie, a departure from the T-shirt he's famous for wearing in public as well as in private. Even so, his youth cast a sharp contrast with his often-elderly, gray-haired Senate inquisitors. And the enormous complexity of the social network he created at times defeated the attempts of legislators to hammer him on Facebook's specific failures and how to fix them."
"The stakes are high for both Zuckerberg and his company. Facebook has been reeling from its worst-ever privacy failure following revelations last month that the political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica, which was affiliated with Trump's 2016 campaign, improperly scooped up data on some 87 million users. Zuckerberg has been on an apology tour for most of the past two weeks, culminating in his congressional appearance Tuesday."
"Although shaky at times, Zuckerberg seemed to gain confidence as the day progressed. An iconic figure as a billionaire entrepreneur who changed the way people around the world relate to each other, he made a point of repeatedly referring back to the Harvard dorm room where he said Facebook was brought to life."
"At times, he showed plenty of steel. After aggressive questioning about Facebook's alleged political bias from Sen. Ted Cruz, for instance, Zuckerberg was asked if he was ready to take a break."
"No need. \"That was pretty good,\" he said of the exchange with Cruz."
"For the most part, his careful but generally straightforward answers, steeped in the sometimes arcane details of Facebook's underlying functions, often deflected aggressive questioning. When the going got tough, Zuckerberg was able to fall back on: \"Our team should follow up with you on that, Senator.\""
"As a result, he found it relatively easy to return to familiar talking points: Facebook made mistakes, he and his executives are very sorry, and they're working very hard to correct the problems and safeguard the users' data."
"As for the federal Russia probe that has occupied much of Washington's attention for months, he said he had not been interviewed by special counsel Mueller's team, but \"I know we're working with them.\" He offered no details, citing a concern about confidentiality rules of the investigation."
"Earlier this year Mueller charged 13 Russian individuals and three Russian companies in a plot to interfere in the 2016 presidential election through a social media propaganda effort that included online ad purchases using U.S. aliases and politicking on U.S. soil. A number of the Russian ads were on Facebook."
"Much of the effort was aimed at denigrating Democrat Hillary Clinton and thereby helping Republican Trump, or simply encouraging divisiveness and undercutting faith in the U.S. system."
"Zuckerberg said Facebook had been led to believe Cambridge Analytica had deleted the user data it had harvested and that had been \"clearly a mistake.\" He said Facebook had considered the data collection \"a closed case\" and had not alerted the Federal Trade Commission. He assured senators the company would handle the situation differently today."
"Separately, the company began alerting some of its users that their data was gathered by Cambridge Analytica. A notification that appeared on Facebook for some users Tuesday told them that \"one of your friends\" used Facebook to log into a now-banned personality quiz app called \"This Is Your Digital Life.\" The notice says the app misused the information, including public profiles, page likes, birthdays and current cities, by sharing it with Cambridge Analytica."
"In the hearings, Zuckerberg is trying to both restore public trust in his company and stave off federal regulations that some lawmakers have floated."
"Democrat Bill Nelson of Florida said he believes Zuckerberg was taking the congressional hearings seriously \"because he knows there is going to be a hard look at regulation.\""
"Republicans have yet to get behind any legislation, but that could change."
"Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., asked Zuckerberg if he would be willing to work with lawmakers to examine what \"regulations you think are necessary in your industry.\""
"Absolutely, Zuckerberg responded, saying later in an exchange with Sen. Dan Sullivan, R-Alaska, that \"I'm not the type of person who thinks that all regulation is bad.\""
"Ahead of the hearing, John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said, \"This is a serious matter, and I think people expect us to take action.\""
"At the hearing, Zuckerberg said: \"We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake. It was my mistake, and I'm sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I'm responsible for what happens here.\""
"He outlined steps the company has taken to restrict outsiders' access to people's personal information. He also said the company is investigating every app that had access to a large amount of information before the company moved to prevent such access in 2014 — actions that came too late in the Cambridge Analytica case."
"___"
"Associated Press writers Richard Lardner and Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report. Ortutay and Hamilton reported from New York."
"
                    In hearing with Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, Ted Cruz avoids questions about Cambridge Analytica                "
"Democrats pounce"
"How it happened"
"Working with Mueller"
"Updated at 5:30 p.m. with additional comment from Texas Sen. John Cornyn. "
"WASHINGTON — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg issued a mea culpa in a Senate hearing Tuesday for a massive leak of personal data involving Cambridge Analytica, the voter-targeting firm used by Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and President Donald Trump that's come under fire for improperly acquiring user information to influence voters in the 2016 presidential contest."
"
But while some senators in both parties pressed Zuckerberg on the scandal, Cruz avoided any mention of Cambridge, instead pushing allegations of political bias at Facebook — and drawing accusations from Democrats that he was protecting the billionaire GOP donor behind the political firm."
"\"There are a great many Americans who I think are deeply concerned that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged in a pervasive pattern of bias and political censorship,\" Cruz said, citing examples of alleged suppression of conservative voices, including labeling the Facebook page of pro-Trump social media personalities \"Diamond\" and \"Silk,\" sisters from North Carolina, \"unsafe.\""
"Cruz, who faces Democratic U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke in a Senate race in the fall, also asked Zuckerberg if Facebook tracks the political leanings of its employees."
"The CEO, appearing in the first of two congressional hearings this week, said that while Facebook's goal is not to engage in political speech, he understands the \"concern\" over bias, as Facebook and other tech companies are based in the left-leaning Silicon Valley. "
"Zuckerberg said he tries to \"root out\" bias in the company. And he rejected a suggestion by Cruz that Palmer Luckey, the wealthy founder of a virtual-reality company acquired by Facebook, was ousted last year because of his conservative political views. Luckey has hosted a Cruz fundraiser in California, according to The Los Angeles Times. He also reportedly supported the pro-Trump group Nimble America, according to multiple news outlets."
"\"There are a great many Americans who I think are deeply concerned that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged in a pervasive pattern of bias and political censorship,\" Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said Tuesday in his questioning of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. "
"Texas Democrats pounced on Cruz following his exchange with Zuckerberg for avoiding asking about Cambridge, a firm largely controlled by GOP billionaire financier Robert Mercer and his daughter, Rebekah. The Mercers supported Cruz's presidential run before backing Trump."
"\"Texans need someone in their corner as their personal information is stolen, but Cruz would rather crawl over broken glass to protect his billionaire donors like Robert Mercer,\" the Texas Democratic Party's deputy executive director, Manny Garcia, said in a statement. \"Cruz talked tough but didn't utter a word about his deep ties with Cambridge Analytica and how he spent millions to exploit users' personal data in a failed attempt to get you to like him. Just like Donald Trump, Ted Cruz has violated the public trust.\""
"On  Twitter, O'Rourke shared a story about how Cruz used the firm during his presidential contest, but he didn't weigh in on the hearing."
"Cambridge Analytica sent staff to Cruz campaign headquarters in Houston. The company ultimately did more than $5.8 million worth of work for his campaign.https://t.co/U2HoYMQ36d"
"A spokeswoman for Cruz declined to comment on Texas Democrats' accusations. "
"The  spokeswoman, Catherine Frazier, has previously said that when the first reports emerged in late 2015 that the firm was misusing Facebook data, Cambridge “assured” the Cruz campaign that the allegations were false."
"What’s more, the Cruz campaign has said that, in the end, it didn't use the Cambridge data and instead relied on its own."
"The Cruz presidential campaign paid Cambridge Analytica $5.8 million between July 2015 and June 2016 for services that included \"voter ID targeting,\" \"voter modeling\" and \"survey research/donor modeling,\" according to federal election reports. Federal records show no sign of ties between any Cruz campaign and Cambridge since mid-2016."
"Cambridge, according to Facebook, acquired its data through a University of Cambridge psychology lecturer who created a personality prediction app called “This Is Your Digital Life” that purportedly was for academic research."
"About 270,000 people downloaded the app, unaware that it would be used by a third party to harvest data on their friend networks and that that data would be transferred and used in political campaigns."
"Zuckerberg testified that when Facebook learned Cambridge had acquired the data through a third-party app developer, it \"demanded\" that both the developer and Cambridge delete the data. "
"Both parties said they did, according to Zuckerberg, who said it was \"clearly a mistake to believe them.\""
"Pressed by Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, the top Democrat on the Senate Commerce Committee, about why the tech company hadn't notified its users or the Federal Trade Commission about the issue at the time, the tech CEO said Facebook had wrongfully considered it a “closed case.\""
"Zuckerberg says, in retrospect, it was a mistake to believe Cambridge Analytica and the app developer when they said they deleted the ill-gotten data. Pressed by @NelsonForSenate admits they didnt notify affected FB users b/c they considered it a closed case."
"It’s estimated that as many as 87 million users had their data used, up from initial estimates of 50 million."
"Facebook executives have embarked on an apology tour in recent days and have begun alerting users whose data may have been improperly shared."
"Cambridge was far from the only hot topic at the hearing, which stretched on for hours as 44 senators from two committees took turns grilling the Facebook leader."
"Zuckerberg disclosed that Facebook is “working with” special counsel Robert Mueller in the federal probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election, and apologized for his company’s failure to prevent the explosion of fake news and disinformation used by the Kremlin to meddle in U.S. politics."
"\"We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake,\" he said. \"And it was my mistake, and I'm sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I'm responsible for what happens here.\""
"Facebook is going through “a broader philosophical shift in how we approach our responsibility as a company,” he said, and needs to take a “more proactive role” that includes ensuring that the tools it creates are used in “good and healthy” ways."
"He outlined steps the company had taken to restrict outsiders' access to people's personal information. He also said the company was investigating every app that had access to a large amount of information before the company moved to prevent such access in 2014 — actions that came too late in the Cambridge Analytica case."
"Zuckerberg also appeared open to some measure of regulation, “if it’s the right regulation,” and pledged to work with lawmakers on what that could entail."
"Sen. Graham: Do you embrace regulation?Zuckerberg: I think the real question as the internet becomes more important in people's lives is, what is the right regulation? LG: But do you, as a company, welcome regulation? MZ: I think if it's the right regulation, then yes. pic.twitter.com/xv1SGABAd5"
"Some Democrats have argued that federal laws might be necessary to ensure user privacy. "
"Republicans have yet to get behind any such legislation, but that could change."
"Texas Sen. John Cornyn, a member of the Judiciary panel and the No. 2 Republican in his chamber, said during a speech ahead of Tuesday's hearing that Facebook's apologies were \"not enough\" and that legislation could eventually be needed to give consumers more control over their own data privacy."
"\"This is a serious matter, and I think people expect us to take action,\" Cornyn told reporters later."
"During the hearing, Cornyn asked Zuckerberg a series of questions about how Facebook manages user data and privacy in general and whether it believes it bears any responsibility for its content. "
"\"I agree that we're responsible for the content,\" Zuckerberg replied. "
"Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify before House lawmakers on Wednesday."
"The Associated Press contributed to this report. "
"©2018, The Dallas Morning News Inc. All Rights Reserved."
"
                    Mark Zuckerberg's congressional testimony reflects the importance of data security                "
"As Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies this week before Congress, his social media behemoth faces intense scrutiny about a range of issues, including the purveyance of fake news, foreign interference in our elections and data privacy."
"Amid the hoopla surrounding the Zuckerberg appearance, the James Bond-like intrigue about Kremlin toadies and the spread of bogus stories into the political zeitgeist, the issue of data integrity  may sound downright boring. But it is critically important."
"Whether consumers give data to social media companies such as Facebook or as part of an application for a credit card or checking account — or provide required information for a surgical procedure — the companies that possess and use the data have a responsibility to make sure that it remains protected."
"Data breaches have become so familiar over the last decade that it's almost as if they are perceived as an inevitable  consequence of convenience. According to the Identity Theft Resource Center, 157 data breaches occurred in 2005. By 2017, that number increased to 1,579."
"That's a 1,000 percent increase in 12 years. And that's unacceptable."
"The data disasters at companies such as Home Depot, Target and Equifax gain a lot of coverage and attention because of their high profile. However, breaches don't necessarily originate with a mustache-twisting villain surrounded by dozens of computer monitors. A Dallas Morning News report revealed, for example, that health information was exposed as a result of patient lists emailed to unauthorized recipients, lost hard drives and improperly disposed of data."
"The danger of computer viruses still provides an element of exposure — as Dallas City Hall found out in February, when a virus affected its computer system and disabled library book checkouts and the city website. On a more sinister note, Atlanta had its computer system hijacked, with the perpetrator demanding a $50,000 Bitcoin ransom to \"release\" it. Instead, the city made the tough choice to rebuild its entire network."
" We hand over a lot of personal info voluntarily — whether it's for a social media site such as Facebook, a grocery store rewards card or the mailing list of a favorite retailer. But just because it was our choice doesn't let the other party off the hook. They have responsibility to maintain the integrity of the data we provide them."
"Can companies police themselves better, including relying on the advice of cybersecurity experts? Or is the public better served to have cybersecurity experts assist Congress in drafting legislation to provide some measure of regulation to keep consumer information safe?"
"The ongoing hearings with Facebook's Zuckerberg are sure to provide a starting point to determine the best course of action."
"Got an opinion about this issue? Send a letter to the editor, and you just might get published."
"
                
          Biz & Tech
        
              "
"Why Mark Zuckerberg should step down as Facebook CEO"
"By Owen Thomas"
"A shift in the role of CEO Mark Zuckerberg might help address \"the crisis of trust\" Facebook is caught up in."
"A shift in the role of CEO Mark Zuckerberg might help address \"the..."
"Nine years ago, I called on Mark Zuckerberg to resign as Facebook’s CEO, after a string of internal and external missteps that, as I wrote in Valleywag, “would have led to any normal CEO’s firing.”"
"Perhaps my timing was off, given the 1.8 billion users and the $450 billion in value Facebook has accrued under Zuckerberg’s leadership since then. Fine: Call me an early adopter. But might now be the right time to consider a change at the top?"
"I’m not alone in asking the question. Two journalists, on a conference call Wednesday with Zuckerberg to discuss the Cambridge Analytica scandal, asked about his role as Facebook’s supreme leader — both chairman and CEO, as well as unimpeachable founder."
"The argument for Zuckerberg is his history: He has fallen on his face, time and time again, and picked himself back up. From the first protests over News Feed — too much sharing! — to Beacon — too much sharing! — to Timeline — too much sharing! — Zuckerberg has always bounced back, rallying his troops to amass new records for users, sharing more than ever before. No one over-cares if Facebook gets you to over-share."
"And it is impossible to overstate the veneration Silicon Valley has for founders. He (and it’s still far too often “he”) who created the product has a unique moral authority to dictate how it should change."
"“Americans are born evangelical,” says Antonio Garcia Martinez, a former Facebook product manager who wrote a book, “Chaos Monkeys,” about his time at the company. “Sometimes it’s about Jesus, and sometimes it’s about other gods. In Silicon Valley, the startup has substituted for your particular Protestant sect.”"
"It’s not so much that founders have some magic ability to see into the future; it’s that it is maddeningly difficult to get an army of engineers to march in tune with anyone but a founder. The founder mystique is a self-fulfilling prophecy."
"But founders sometimes founder. Some realize their limits early. Look at LinkedIn’s Reid Hoffman, who smartly turned over the reins to Jeff Weiner, who led the company to a $26 billion sale to Microsoft two years ago and still runs it today. Some crash into them: See Uber’s Travis Kalanick. Jack Dorsey’s return to Twitter is an inconclusive data point."
"A more salient point is Zuckerberg’s ironclad control of Facebook through a multi-class share structure that gives public shareholders little say. Were the board of directors to consider a change, Zuckerberg could simply replace them."
"There is an increasing consensus in Washington, in Silicon Valley and around the world that something dramatic — something more than the flurry of announcements and privacy settings updates and crackdowns on developers — needs to be done."
"“Facebook is in a crisis of trust,” Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff said at a recent meeting of The Chronicle’s editorial board. “Is it all about the product or is it all about trust?”"
"The CEO of San Francisco’s largest tech company says he stopped using Facebook three years ago, long before the #DeleteFacebook movement caught steam. Now, he says, he views it as the “new cigarettes”: “It’s not good for you, outside forces are trying to manipulate you to use it, and it should probably be regulated.”"
"Asked if there’s some scenario where it might be appropriate for Zuckerberg to step down, Benioff said: “I don’t think we’re at that point yet, but we haven’t seen all the data.”"
"Yet it seems impossible to imagine an outsider coming into this crisis and commanding the trust and loyalty of Facebook’s tens of thousands of restive employees."
"“The problems at Facebook are inherent in the advertising business model,” says Roger McNamee, a tech investor at Elevation Partners who was an early Facebook backer. “It is not at all obvious that changing the top people will make it easier to fix those problems.”"
"Facebook’s board has expressed confidence in the leadership of Zuckerberg and Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg. “Mark and Sheryl know how serious this situation is and are working with the rest of Facebook leadership to build stronger user protections. They have built the company and our business and are instrumental to its future,” Susan Desmond-Hellman, the board’s lead independent director, said in a statement through a spokeswoman."
"Yet here’s a thought: What if Zuckerberg doesn’t actually want to be CEO?"
"When asked about his leadership in Wednesday’s call, Zuckerberg’s smooth delivery faltered. The long, awkward pauses that were a hallmark of his early public appearances returned. And in an interview last month, he gave some glimmer of frustration with what his job had turned into."
"“What I would really like to do is find a way to get our policies set in the way that reflects the values of the community so I’m not the one making those decisions,” Zuckerberg told Recode. “I feel fundamentally uncomfortable sitting here in California at an office making content policy decisions for people around the world.”"
"Yet that is, increasingly, the job. Not imagining a virtual reality version of Facebook, not tinkering with data centers so they can store more baby photos, not coming up with ways to hobble the next hot social app like Snapchat."
"Here’s a solution that will probably not make anyone happy — but could be the right answer. What if Zuckerberg handed the CEO job over to Sandberg, his right hand for the past decade?"
"Sandberg, who worked in the Clinton administration before coming west to join Google, knows politics. She is fluent in trade-offs and compromise, and, unlike Zuckerberg, gives the impression she might actually enjoy interacting with people."
"Zuckerberg could stay as executive chairman, and keep a hand in Facebook’s products — an arrangement that seems to work well for Oracle’s Larry Ellison. That would please corporate governance critics who have called for Facebook to separate the roles of chairman and CEO, while Facebook engineers could be contented that the hacker-in-chief still reigns at One Hacker Way."
"And it would salve politicians who are unsatisfied when anyone but the boss shows up. Witness the grousing that happened when Facebook sent its top lawyer instead of Zuckerberg to testify in a probe into Russian election interference in November — grousing that made it all but impossible for Zuckerberg to refuse invitations to testify before Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday. As CEO, Sandberg could safely go in Zuckerberg’s stead."
"It also solves a problem for Zuckerberg and Sandberg: namely, their next act. Before the disasters that began in 2016, the thought was that one or both of them might find their way into politics. Facebook even considered a change that allowed Zuckerberg to preserve his control if he took a leave of absence while “serving in a government position or office.” (The company canceled that plan in September in the face of a shareholder lawsuit.)"
"It seems clear that Facebook’s scandals have tarnished any prospect either has of a political career. And though Sandberg is constantly sought for other leadership roles, she has shown little interest in doing anything else. Which means more Facebook for both of them."
"“I believe that Mark and Sheryl are capable of fixing Facebook,” says McNamee, the early investor. “What they have not shown yet is a willingness to address the fundamental flaws in the business model or a willingness to open up to investigators and users to eliminate the crisis of trust that has developed around the company.”"
"Benioff said he had advised Sandberg, whom he counts as a friend, to stop talking about the value of connecting people and talk about trust instead. (Sandberg did not respond to a request for comment about Benioff’s advice.)"
"Would a rearrangement of boardroom chairs bolster people’s trust in Facebook? Perhaps, perhaps not. But some kind of motion would be helpful. Zuckerberg’s oft-quoted maxim is “move fast and break things.” Maybe his lock on the CEO chair is what needs breaking."
"Owen Thomas is The San Francisco Chronicle’s business editor. Email: othomas@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @owenthomas"
"Business Editor"
"Mark Zuckerberg finally says ‘sorry’ for Facebook data debacle"
"By Trisha Thadani"
"Read Mark Zuckerberg's full posts regarding Cambridge Analytica."
"Alexander Nix, CEO, Cambridge Analytica, answers Matthew Freud, Founder and Chairman, Freuds, questions about \"From Mad Men to Math Men\" during the final day of Web Summit in Altice Arena on November 09, 2017 in Lisbon, Portugal. Web Summit (originally Dublin Web Summit) is a technology conference held annually since 2009. The company was founded by Paddy Cosgrave, David Kelly and Daire Hickey. The topic of the conference is centered on internet technology and attendees range from Fortune 500 companies to smaller tech companies. This contains a mix of CEOs and founders of tech start ups together with a range of people from across the global technology industry, as well as related industries. This year's edition, starting on November 06, is the second to be held in Lisbon and will congregate almost 60,000 participants. (Photo by Horacio Villalobos - Corbis/Getty Images)"
"Alexander Nix, CEO, Cambridge Analytica, answers Matthew Freud, Founder and Chairman, Freuds, questions about \"From Mad Men to Math Men\" during the final day of Web Summit in Altice Arena on November 09, 2017"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally said what users, developers and investors have been waiting to hear since the company admitted it allowed the data of millions of users to be misused: “Sorry.”"
"“This was a major breach of trust, and I’m really sorry this happened,” the 33-year-old said in an interview on CNN Wednesday evening."
"Zuckerberg was responding to revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a political firm that worked for Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, gained access to data on some 50 million users, in contravention of Facebook’s rules for data access. It was his first interview since the company admitted to the violation last week."
"In the interview, he admitted the company needs to do a better job monitoring third-party apps that use Facebook’s data. Millions of people log on to apps using Facebook every day, but the average user is unaware of how many apps actually have access to their data."
"Users who may have been affected by the Cambridge Analytica breach will be notified, he said, but did not offer a timeline. And going forward, Zuckerberg said Facebook will do a comprehensive review of thousands of apps to make sure they are using data in good faith."
"When asked if he would testify in front of Congress on this issue — as lawmakers have called for him to do — he said, “I’m happy to if it’s the right thing to do.”"
"Facebook's stocks are plummeting and some people are calling for users to delete their accounts on the social media site. What's the scandal all about? Here's an explanation of Cambridge Analytica's misuse of Facebook data."
"These revelations come as Facebook grapples with criticism for not doing enough to stop the spread of Russia-linked fake Facebook accounts and ads to influence the 2016 presidential election."
"Zuckerberg said it is hard to “have a full assessment” if the social network had an influence on the 2016 campaign, saying there were many factors at play."
"But he admitted that the company fell short: “In 2016, we were not as on top of the issue as we should have — whether it was Russian interference or fake news.”"
"Trisha Thadani is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: tthadani@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @TrishaThadani"
"Business Reporter"
"Remember the last time Mark Zuckerberg asked us to trust him?"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is once again asking everyone for their trust."
"But in making new promises, he may have broken an old one."
"In his first public response to revelations of a massive misuse of 50 million Facebook users’ data, Zuckerberg vowed to make changes. Most involved tightening up the way app developers can use the data they access through Facebook’s online interfaces — what the company calls the Facebook Platform."
"“We will restrict developers’ data access even further to prevent other kinds of abuse,” Zuckerberg wrote Wednesday. “For example, we will remove developers’ access to your data if you haven’t used their app in 3 months. We will reduce the data you give an app when you sign in — to only your name, profile photo, and email address. We’ll require developers to not only get approval but also sign a contract in order to ask anyone for access to their posts or other private data. And we’ll have more changes to share in the next few days.”"
"Those changes may reassure users. But they will likely alarm developers — especially those who attended Facebook’s 2014 F8 developer conference. And the turnabout should give pause to anyone evaluating Zuckerberg’s new statements."
"At the 2014 event, Facebook strove to mend fences with app makers who were rattled by the social network’s rapid-fire tweaks to its rules for access to user data and posting on Facebook’s News Feed. Facebook, Zuckerberg said, was abandoning its famous “move fast and break things” slogan in favor of a new, clunkier ralling cry: “Move fast with stable infra,” or infrastructure."
"Specifically, Zuckerberg said, Facebook would wait two years after announcing changes to its application programming interface, or API — the gateway used by developers — to implement them."
"In his Wednesday post, Zuckerberg did not make clear when the changes he outlined would take effect, though his language suggested alacrity. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment."
"Therein lies Zuckerberg’s dilemma: Breaking his 2014 promise breaches developers’ trust. Sticking to the two-year timeline for making urgent changes would outrage users, politicians and regulators demanding swift action. Either way, any reasonable person would conclude he’s not keeping his word."
"Owen Thomas is the San Francisco Chronicle’s business editor. Email: othomas@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @owenthomas"
"Facebook’s Zuckerberg announces campaign against misuse of social network"
"By David R. Baker and Owen Thomas"
"Hours after Facebook reported that a political data-sharing scandal affected almost 40 million more of the social network’s users than previously believed, CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday outlined a multiyear campaign to fight election interference by foreign governments and Internet trolls."
"In an hour-long phone call with reporters, Zuckerberg acknowledged that disinformation campaigns during the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign caught his company unprepared, a mistake he said he was determined not to repeat."
"“I’m confident we’re making progress against these adversaries, but they’re very sophisticated,” Zuckerberg said. “And it would be a mistake to think they’re going to give up or stop doing what they’re doing.”"
"His comments capped a whirlwind day of news in which Facebook reported that up to 87 million of its users may have had their data improperly accessed by Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm connected to President Trump’s election campaign. The previous estimate had been 50 million. Facebook on Wednesday also significantly restricted the user data that apps and their developers can access through the social network."
"A day earlier, the Menlo Park company removed 70 Facebook and 65 Instagram accounts, along with 138 Facebook pages, controlled by the Internet Research Agency, an organization tied to the Russian government and accused of running disinformation campaigns to benefit the Kremlin. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has indicted 12 agency workers for interfering in the 2016 election."
"Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify next week at a joint hearing of the Senate’s Judiciary and Commerce committees and before the House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Committee, and his comments may have represented a preview."
"He called it “a mistake” when shortly after the election he dismissed the possibility that fake news spread across the network had played a role in the election’s outcome. He acknowledged that the company now faces a crisis in public confidence — severe enough to trigger a “#deletefacebook” movement — and said Facebook could no longer take a hands-off approach to what people do with its worldwide platform."
"“It’s such a big service that’s so central to people’s lives,” Zuckerberg said. “We’re not just building tools. We need to take responsibility for the outcome of how people use those tools as well.”"
"The company’s efforts to confront potential election interference, he said, involved dealing with three distinct problems, each with its own possible solutions."
"Some of the people spreading disinformation online, he said, are government-connected actors who must be identified and blocked, even as they create a bewildering number of online accounts for disguise."
"“People are setting up these large networks of fake accounts, like the (Internet Research Agency) had done, and what we need to do is track it really carefully so we can remove them entirely,” Zuckerberg said. “We take them down and treat that as a security issue.”"
"At the same time, others spreading disinformation do it strictly for economic reasons. Rather than pursuing some larger political strategy, they post sensational stories to attract readers and make money on advertising."
"“If we can just make it so the economics no longer work for them, they’ll move on to something else,” Zuckerberg said. “I mean, these are literally the same people who were sending you Viagra ads in the ’90s.”"
"Finally, there are users posting political content that isn’t fraudulent but is skewed, cherry-picking facts to make a point. Partnering with fact-checking organizations and favoring stories from established journalism outlets can help address that issue, Zuckerberg said."
"“I do think this is a multiyear effort,” he said. “My hope is that by the end of this year, we’ll have turned the corner on a lot of these issues, and people will see things are getting better. But these are big issues.”"
"Revelations about Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user data reignited a long-simmering debate in Silicon Valley, Washington and around the world about whether online companies do enough to protect the vast troves of information they collect on their users."
"“Facebook now plays a critical role in many social relationships, informing Americans about current events, and pitching everything from products to political candidates,” said Sen. John Thune, chairman of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, in a statement. “Our joint hearing will be a public conversation with the CEO of this powerful and influential company about his vision for addressing problems that have generated significant concern about Facebook’s role in our democracy, bad actors using the platform, and user privacy.”"
"Facebook’s openness to third-party developers helped establish it as a force in social networking and fueled its fast growth over the past decade. But Facebook has reconsidered its policies following revelations that Cambridge Analytica obtained data unscrupulously through an academic who tricked Facebook users into handing over information about themselves and their friends with an online quiz."
"Facebook said Wednesday that it was closing down a range of services, known as application programming interfaces or APIs, that developers use, and tightening rules for others."
"The company is restricting access to data, requiring advertisers to verify that users have opted in to data sharing and taking other steps to make it harder to obtain users’ data surreptitiously through apps."
"Some of the new restrictions will hurt developers who build apps using Facebook’s relationships with billions of users and the information they post."
"It’s a sharp reversal. In 2014, Facebook, facing criticism from developers that rapid-fire changes to the rules they had to observe were breaking their apps and forcing them to constantly update their software, promised to wait two years after announcing changes to roll them out. That would afford developers plenty of time to make adjustments."
"Wednesday’s announcement was an explicit breach of that promise, with most of the changes effective immediately."
"A Facebook spokeswoman declined to offer comment beyond Zuckerberg’s remarks in the phone call."
"“Innovation demands iteration; it requires constant change,” wrote Ime Archibong, Facebook’s vice president of partnerships, in a blog post announcing the tightening of rules. “And, while change is never easy, we believe the immediate platform updates we are announcing today will build stronger connections for people, developers and businesses in the future, while maintaining their privacy and security on Facebook.”"
"David R. Baker and Owen Thomas are San Francisco Chronicle staff writers. Email: dbaker@sfchronicle.com, othomas@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @DavidBakerSF @OwenThomas"
"Facebook not confirming report that Zuckerberg will testify before Congress"
"By Benny Evangelista"
"Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg will reportedly testify before Congress about the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, although the Menlo Park company said Tuesday that nothing has been decided."
"But Zuckerberg won’t be traveling to London to testify before Parliament, instead opting to send one of his top deputies."
"Zuckerberg has been invited to testify in Washington, D.C., at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing scheduled for April 10, along with the CEOs of Google and Twitter. Zuckerberg also has  invitations from the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation. Those hearings have not yet been scheduled."
"The company has received the invitations and is talking to the legislators, according to a Facebook source who spoke on condition of anonymity."
"CNN, which quoted unnamed Facebook sources, said Zuckerberg has decided to testify “within a matter of weeks” and that the company is “planning the strategy for his testimony.”"
"However, the  company declined to comment on that report, and the Facebook source said the decision to testify has not been made."
"Bloomberg News reported that Zuckerberg would testify before the Energy and Commerce Committee. But committee spokeswoman Elena Hernandez said that appearance also was not set."
"“Reports of Mr. Zuckerberg’s confirmed attendance are incorrect,” Hernandez said in an email. “The committee is continuing to work with Facebook to determine a day and time for Mr. Zuckerberg to testify.”"
"In a research note, analyst Daniel Ives said Zuckerberg needs to testify at some point before Congress because the Cambridge Analytica affair “represents the darkest chapter in the company’s 14-year history.”"
"Zuckerberg needs “to try to calm the public, user, and regulatory choppy waters in this data leak situation,” said Ives, head of technology research at GBH Insights. “While this will not be a pleasant experience for Zuckerberg and his team going in front of Congress, it is a necessary smart strategic step for Facebook to head to the Beltway.”"
"Facebook has been at the center of a firestorm ignited by the disclosure that Cambridge Analytica, a British political consulting firm hired by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, improperly accessed data from more than 50 million users."
"Zuckerberg has typically used his own Facebook account to make major announcements about his plans. However, his most recent post lauded Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg’s 10th anniversary with the  company."
"Iowa Republican Chuck Grassley, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Zuckerberg to testify on April 10 about “Facebook’s past and future policies regarding the protection and monitoring of consumer data,” a news release from the senator’s office said. Grassley also invited the CEOs of Google and Twitter."
"Representatives for Grassley did not return messages Tuesday."
"In London, Damian Collins, chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, sent a letter to Zuckerberg March 20 requesting his appearance at the House of Commons. In the letter, Collins said Facebook officials have “consistently understated” the risk of users’ data being taken without their consent and asked for “an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process.”"
"Rebecca Stimson, Facebook’s head of public policy in the United Kingdom, replied in a letter dated Monday that Zuckerberg was instead offering either Mike Schroepfer, chief technology officer, or Chris Cox, chief product officer, to testify in his place."
"Meanwhile, the Associated Press reported that a computer expert who alleges a trove of Facebook data was improperly used to help  Trump’s White House bid said Tuesday that he strongly believes the information was also used by the Brexit movement that persuaded Britain to quit the European Union."
"In a 3½-hour hearing, Chris Wylie told the House of Commons media committee that he believes the breach exceeded the 50 million Facebook users reported earlier — though he didn’t give an exact figure. And he said the data compiled by the political consulting business Cambridge Analytica were available to other firms with links to it."
"“All kinds of people had access to the data,” said Wylie, who helped develop Cambridge Analytica’s methods for using the information to target and persuade voters. “It was everywhere.”"
"Speaking of possible Congressional action during a San Francisco appearance, U.S. Sen Ed Markey, D-Mass., said “I think we’ve reached the moment where people will demand action, but it may be opposed by conservative Republicans and Silicon Valley”"
"Chronicle staff writer Annie Ma contributed to this report."
"Benny Evangelista is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: bevangelista@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @ChronicleBenny"
"Business and Technology Reporter"
